
===========================================================
October 2015 Galaxy Release (v 15.10)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**Reports Application**
  The reports web application has been greatly enhanced - including
  improved styling, new landing page, more reports, pagination, and
  sparklines. Huge thanks to Daniel Bouchard
  (`@Airistotal <https://github.com/Airistotal>`__) for these
  enhancements.

**Upload**
  The Galaxy upload widget now features support for composite datatypes and
  improved styling.

**Data Libraries**
  Improved API and UI for data libraries - including support for library
  folder management and search.

`GitHub <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy>`__
===========================================================

New
  .. code-block:: shell

      % git clone -b master https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy.git

Update to latest stable release
  .. code-block:: shell

      % git checkout master && pull --ff-only origin master

Update to exact version
  .. code-block:: shell

      % git checkout v15.10


`BitBucket <https://bitbucket.org/galaxy/galaxy-dist>`__
===========================================================

Upgrade
  .. code-block:: shell

      % hg pull
      % hg update latest_15.10


See `our wiki <https://galaxyproject.org/develop/source-code/>`__ for additional details regarding the source code locations.


Deprecation Notices
===========================================================

The Mercurial repository at https://bitbucket.org/galaxy/galaxy-dist is deprecated.
**We recommend deployers to switch their instances to git** and follow the `master`
branch of GitHub repository https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy
Details are available at https://galaxyproject.org/develop/source-code/
*The next few releases will still be available on Bitbucket, but they may be
less up to date than the corresponding GitHub branches.*

The **old UI of Data Libraries is deprecated** and will be removed in the
next release of Galaxy. The current Data Libraries Beta will replace it.
The Data Library menu items were renamed accordingly.

The **graphview visualization is deprecated** and will be replaced in the next
release of Galaxy.

The direct access to **Tool Shed repositories through the Mercurial API is deprecated**.
It will be removed in a future release. Please use Planemo for uploading to the TS
instead.

Release Notes
===========================================================

.. include:: 15.10.rst
   :start-after: enhancements

.. include:: _thanks.rst
