
.. to_doc

-------------------------------
16.01
-------------------------------

Enhancements
-------------------------------

.. major_feature

* Add BAM iobio visualisation as Interactive Environment
  (Thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1131`_
* Webpack
  `Pull Request 1144`_
.. feature

* add google analytics tracking to newlibs, propagate ga_code to JS config
  `Pull Request 959`_
* UniProtXML datatype
  (Thanks to `@jj-umn <https://github.com/jj-umn>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1004`_
* Labels for individual tools in tool panel.
  `Pull Request 1012`_
* Don't fail if a repository is already installed
  (Thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1095`_
* Prevent GIEs from being closed without user confirmation
  (Thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1178`_
* Add the CSG Viewer visualization plugin
  (Thanks to `@gregvonkuster <https://github.com/gregvonkuster>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1254`_
* Allow input collections to specify multiple collection types.
  `Pull Request 1308`_
* Implement a conda dependency resolver.
  `Pull Request 1345`_
* ToolBox Overhaul
  `Pull Request 1398`_
* Add Jupyter Interactive Environment
  (Thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1400`_
* Implement special config file to dump parameters as json.
  `Pull Request 1405`_
* Evolving from dependency resolution to dependency management.
  `Pull Request 1409`_
* Interactive Tours
  `Pull Request 1422`_
.. enhancement

* Populate env.sh files with X_ROOT_DIR.
  `Pull Request 564`_
* Allow multiple collections to be supplied to a multiple data parameter.
  `Pull Request 805`_
* Look up installed tools from different toolshed(s)
  (Thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__.)
  `Pull Request 818`_
* doc updates for ObjectStore
  (Thanks to `@mr-c <https://github.com/mr-c>`__.)
  `Pull Request 853`_
* Dynatree upgrade
  `Pull Request 856`_
* Eliminate LWR from Galaxy.
  `Pull Request 857`_
* Tighten up GG sniffing
  `Pull Request 864`_
* Use common exceptions in tools
  `Pull Request 874`_
* Refactor the remote user middleware for complexity
  (Thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__.)
  `Pull Request 875`_
* Slight tweak to sidebar section naming from 'security' to 'user manag…
  `Pull Request 877`_
* Fix the issue where too many datasets are linked to a certain role
  (Thanks to `@scholtalbers <https://github.com/scholtalbers>`__.)
  `Pull Request 881`_
* fix for strange package names
  (Thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__.)
  `Pull Request 889`_
* replace exit() with quit(), this is more portable
  (Thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__.)
  `Pull Request 893`_
* Avoid confusion by adding the pdf datatype to the list of uploadable file
  types
  `Pull Request 901`_
* A proposal for bug and issue handling, and roadmap management
  `Pull Request 902`_
* Add support for constructive solid geometry datatypes ply and vtk.
  (Thanks to `@gregvonkuster <https://github.com/gregvonkuster>`__.)
  `Pull Request 905`_
* Reorder workflow inputs to top
  (Thanks to `@scholtalbers <https://github.com/scholtalbers>`__.)
  `Pull Request 912`_
* Add searchgui datatype
  (Thanks to `@jj-umn <https://github.com/jj-umn>`__.)
  `Pull Request 914`_
* Library upload dir script
  (Thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__.)
  `Pull Request 918`_
* Enable dockerized toolshed tests.
  `Pull Request 942`_
* Add BIOM v1 in default datatypes.
  (Thanks to `@fescudie <https://github.com/fescudie>`__.)
  `Pull Request 950`_
* Improvements and fixes for abstract tool interface
  (Thanks to `@common-workflow-language <https://github.com/common-workflow-
  language>`__.)
  `Pull Request 955`_
* Add icons and reorganise history menu
  (Thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__.)
  `Pull Request 985`_
* Add a --dev-wheels arg to common_startup.sh
  `Pull Request 988`_
* Add a script for creating binary-compatibility.cfg and run it from
  common_startup.sh
  `Pull Request 989`_
* Remove remaining references to galaxy.eggs . flake8 some tools.
  (Thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__.)
  `Pull Request 990`_
* Apply stricter flake8 rules for the directories shared with Pulsar
  (Thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1010`_
* Client side logging
  `Pull Request 1011`_
* Updates to default welcome page.
  `Pull Request 1013`_
* Revise deferred queue, use jQuery promises
  `Pull Request 1018`_
* Keep select field open for multi select
  `Pull Request 1019`_
* Issue procedure linkage
  `Pull Request 1020`_
* Allow resizing of regular multi-select boxes
  `Pull Request 1025`_
* wig_to_bigwig: Add error message for wrongly formatted data
  (Thanks to `@scholtalbers <https://github.com/scholtalbers>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1033`_
* Extend users API with delete action.
  (Thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1063`_
* Check len files during download from UCSC.
  (Thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1066`_
* add biocrusoe to contributors
  `Pull Request 1067`_
* Outline "Format 2" workflow definitions.
  `Pull Request 1096`_
* Improve the API attributes on parameters page.
  `Pull Request 1098`_
* Update run_tests.sh help for `#844
  <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/issues/844>`__.
  (Thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1101`_
* Show welcome page with required login
  `Pull Request 1105`_
* CRAM datatype definiton
  (Thanks to `@yhoogstrate <https://github.com/yhoogstrate>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1108`_
* Add search on username/any for API calls to user, use Select2 for sharing
  workflows/pages/histories
  (Thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1111`_
* Allow accessing collection elements in format_source.
  `Pull Request 1113`_
* Add nginx config for GIE proxy to documentation
  `Pull Request 1123`_
* Enforce client build deps are up-to-date.  Rebuild style with lessc > 2.5
  `Pull Request 1130`_
* Finish swapping unencoded ids with order_index in workflows API.
  `Pull Request 1137`_
* Menu onclick addition
  `Pull Request 1142`_
* Implement type_source on output collections.
  `Pull Request 1153`_
* Call onbeforeunload before hiding iframe through display()
  `Pull Request 1157`_
* add local grunt-cli dependency for qunit tests
  `Pull Request 1159`_
* Allowed for capitalised package names such as R
  (Thanks to `@Christian-B <https://github.com/Christian-B>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1160`_
* Small optimizations to running tools.
  `Pull Request 1163`_
* Another set of tool execution optimizations
  `Pull Request 1166`_
* Do not check for tool migrations when running tests.
  `Pull Request 1176`_
* Lazy load HDA/LDDA metadata to speed up history loading
  (Thanks to `@abretaud <https://github.com/abretaud>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1179`_
* cram datatype: crai index via pysam
  (Thanks to `@yhoogstrate <https://github.com/yhoogstrate>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1182`_
* Filter download links, avoid warning dialog
  `Pull Request 1184`_
* BIOM1 Datatype enhancements
  `Pull Request 1198`_
* Yet More Tool Execution Optimizations
  `Pull Request 1199`_
* Add idpDB and HDF5 sniffers and fix MzSQlite sniffer
  (Thanks to `@chambm <https://github.com/chambm>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1209`_
* Enhance the VTK datatypes to support cell data in addition to point
  (Thanks to `@gregvonkuster <https://github.com/gregvonkuster>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1211`_
* Smaller Tool Optimization PR
  `Pull Request 1212`_
* Add debug statement in output checker for why job is failing.
  `Pull Request 1213`_
* Small enhancements in workflow inputs and outputs
  `Pull Request 1214`_
* More small workflow tweaks.
  `Pull Request 1216`_
* Collection tool input mapping performance fixes
  (Thanks to `@ericenns <https://github.com/ericenns>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1217`_
* Add documentation and extra options to Environment Modules resolver
  (Thanks to `@pvanheus <https://github.com/pvanheus>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1221`_
* Ease the grunt uglify process
  (Thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1238`_
* Run workflow form
  `Pull Request 1249`_
* Workflow Editor UI for Step Labels
  `Pull Request 1251`_
* Tool migration: do not mess with galaxy_config_file, if provided.
  (Thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1253`_
* Managers, users: properly return a boolean from has_requests
  `Pull Request 1262`_
* Extend the logging of tool dependency status changes.
  (Thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1263`_
* Remove: history_options and options.mako (history options as a page)
  `Pull Request 1271`_
* Include link to old and new toolshed repository, and make sure upgrade
  message is…
  (Thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1286`_
* Documentation for dependency resolvers
  (Thanks to `@pvanheus <https://github.com/pvanheus>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1296`_
* Minor mail config cleanup
  `Pull Request 1299`_
* Replace uses of history.imp and history.copy web methods for API create
  `Pull Request 1303`_
* New Workflow Modules - Input Parameters and Subworkflows
  (Thanks to `@common-workflow-language <https://github.com/common-workflow-
  language>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1306`_
* More tightening up of parameter validation during workflow stuff.
  `Pull Request 1319`_
* Show a more user-friendly error when the webserver port is blocked
  (Thanks to `@shano <https://github.com/shano>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1320`_
* Upgrade Paste to 2.0.2
  `Pull Request 1344`_
* Move Dictifiable out of model package into util.
  `Pull Request 1350`_
* Remove some unused stuff from galaxy.util.
  `Pull Request 1351`_
* Refactor is_multi_byte out of top-level galaxy.util.
  `Pull Request 1352`_
* PY3 fixes for galaxy.util.
  `Pull Request 1359`_
* PY3 fixes for galaxy.util submodules.
  `Pull Request 1362`_
* Unify and Abstract Code for Checking if File Looks Like a Tool
  `Pull Request 1368`_
* More Python 3 fixes.
  `Pull Request 1376`_
* Improve startup options related to wheel/dependency/virtualenv management.
  `Pull Request 1389`_
* Added hashes
  (Thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1393`_
* Adding uuid support to directory_hash_id
  (Thanks to `@kellrott <https://github.com/kellrott>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1397`_
* Interactive Environment updates
  (Thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1399`_
* Isolate tool commands by default.
  `Pull Request 1412`_
* Copy pastescript's NiceConfigParser into galaxy.util.properties.
  `Pull Request 1413`_
* Change scratchbook close icon
  `Pull Request 1425`_
* Revise galaxy-lib dependencies.
  `Pull Request 1427`_
* Update version to 16.01.rc1
  `Pull Request 1430`_
* Improve default tours
  (Thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1464`_
* Allow override of job shell (for conda resolver).
  `Pull Request 1473`_
* Fix common_startup options for planemo.
  `Pull Request 1485`_
* Fix to ensure integrity of tool_script.sh also.
  `Pull Request 1494`_
.. small_enhancement

* Attempt to fix more transiently failing API tests.
  `Pull Request 859`_
* Try harder to verify script integrity before running job scripts.
  `Pull Request 865`_
* Reinsert update state function to fix workflow execution which still relies
  on it.
  `Pull Request 876`_
* Fix data library test case
  `Pull Request 898`_
* remove test_map_over_two_collections_legacy as it is obsolete
  `Pull Request 924`_
* Version the testing-base docker image
  `Pull Request 938`_
* Testing: update casperjs functional tests; change expected size strin…
  `Pull Request 944`_
* fix the docker db client_encoding to not be ascii (default)
  `Pull Request 952`_
* Use the database temp directory to store the Mako template cache when
  running framework tests.
  `Pull Request 956`_
* Rename lib/galaxy/main.py to scripts/galaxy-main
  `Pull Request 994`_
* Fix deferred dom removal
  `Pull Request 997`_
* Two Small Tweaks from CWL Branch
  `Pull Request 1014`_
* Fix log statements and link to logger
  `Pull Request 1040`_
* add more data libraries API tests
  `Pull Request 1074`_
* upload.py: Remove unused function parameter
  (Thanks to `@einon <https://github.com/einon>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1078`_
* Update testing docker image
  `Pull Request 1083`_
* Small Tool and Workflow Cleanups from CWL Work.
  `Pull Request 1097`_
* Revise and fix waiting for tool tests.
  `Pull Request 1119`_
* Renames reports_wsgi.ini
  (Thanks to `@souravsingh <https://github.com/souravsingh>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1181`_
* Small Tool and Workflow Refactoring and Fixes
  `Pull Request 1202`_
* Wait on jobs and history in certain API test cases.
  `Pull Request 1226`_
* Fix qunit shim to match base_panels.mako shim.
  `Pull Request 1233`_
* Improved logging related tool test timeouts.
  `Pull Request 1243`_
* Refactor generic side workflow editor panel toward backbone.
  `Pull Request 1247`_
* Attempt to fix transiently failing tool test on Jenkins
  `Pull Request 1248`_
* set client_encoding for TS dockerized test db
  `Pull Request 1276`_
* update used galaxy/testing-base to 15.10.3
  `Pull Request 1277`_
* Client, polyfills: check for sessionStorage using a more cross-browse…
  `Pull Request 1279`_
* Small API Test Improvements
  `Pull Request 1285`_
* Enforce metrics related to moving toward modern client infrastructure.
  `Pull Request 1292`_
* Refactor tool stuff for generic model actions
  `Pull Request 1307`_
* Remove worklfow casperjs API test.
  `Pull Request 1316`_
* Refactor tool parsing handling toward reuse outside Galaxy
  `Pull Request 1349`_
* Refactor tool output classes out of galaxy.tools and into parser module.
  `Pull Request 1353`_
* Lint with Python 3 several modules.
  `Pull Request 1354`_
* Refactor galaxy.datatypes.checkers into galaxy.util.checkers.
  `Pull Request 1363`_
* Refactor AbstractToolbox toward reuse outside Galaxy
  `Pull Request 1367`_
* Uploader enhancements, modal and popover cleanup, fixes and new test cases
  `Pull Request 1377`_
* Python 3 fixes and galaxy-lib updates from planemo.
  `Pull Request 1388`_
* Fix and potential fix for transiently failing tests.
  `Pull Request 1401`_
* Masthead/Scratchbook revision and test cases
  `Pull Request 1407`_
* Fix casper tests
  `Pull Request 1438`_
* Fix casper tests.
  `Pull Request 1439`_
* Fix optional watchdog handling.
  `Pull Request 1448`_

Fixes
-------------------------------

.. major_bug

.. bug

* Add check for HTTP_GX_SECRET
  (Thanks to `@golharam <https://github.com/golharam>`__.)
  `Pull Request 827`_
* Test if parameter present in value to avoid index error.
  (Thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__.)
  `Pull Request 863`_
* Bump version of sqlite3 in nodejs proxy
  (Thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__.)
  `Pull Request 866`_
* Expose API keys to admins under REMOTE_USER
  (Thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__.)
  `Pull Request 872`_
* Only return repository if it is not None ( This happens for the repo…
  (Thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__.)
  `Pull Request 891`_
* Add a workaround to return a proper error code
  (Thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__.)
  `Pull Request 892`_
* Quota bugfixes
  `Pull Request 907`_
* Visualizations registry: always set 'tests' for a plugin, defaulting …
  `Pull Request 908`_
* Correct newly broken condor runner
  (Thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__.)
  `Pull Request 909`_
* Change user preference datatype to text
  `Pull Request 916`_
* Fix syntax of error parameter of tryCatch in setup_r_environment action.
  (Thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__.)
  `Pull Request 929`_
* Revise tool url building
  `Pull Request 947`_
* Tools don't start with <tool_dependencies
  (Thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__.)
  `Pull Request 949`_
* S3ObjectStore followup fix
  `Pull Request 960`_
* Fix base panels to include scripts as the last element of the body,
  `Pull Request 969`_
* Grid batch operation fixes
  `Pull Request 971`_
* Fixes `#932 <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/issues/932>`__
  (Thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__.)
  `Pull Request 991`_
* binary_compatibility.py shouldn't fail
  `Pull Request 995`_
* Fix a regression introduced during egg smashing that broke the
  drmaa_library_path param
  `Pull Request 996`_
* Add 2 missing dependencies of dependencies
  `Pull Request 1006`_
* Downgrade WebError.
  `Pull Request 1017`_
* Fixes broken env-var declarations for tools with weird chars in their…
  (Thanks to `@yhoogstrate <https://github.com/yhoogstrate>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1028`_
* Add stub fetch_eggs.py/check_eggs.py
  `Pull Request 1037`_
* Added gitignore rules to ignore custom tool-data
  (Thanks to `@yhoogstrate <https://github.com/yhoogstrate>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1048`_
* Fix import of history datasets into library.
  (Thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1049`_
* Fix for reloading tools that have non-standard tool_ids/versions.
  `Pull Request 1050`_
* Improved Encoding Handling for Jobs
  `Pull Request 1052`_
* Fix lped report output from converter
  `Pull Request 1069`_
* Fix one more hanging div in lped to pbed converter.
  `Pull Request 1070`_
* Update both lped pbed pbed lped converters to be in sync with their h…
  `Pull Request 1072`_
* Trivial: Replace unnecessary duplicated var check with 'else if'
  (Thanks to `@einon <https://github.com/einon>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1073`_
* Fix a bug in IEs when proxying the proxy
  `Pull Request 1076`_
* Fix 500 error when attempting to update installed repository.
  `Pull Request 1082`_
* Resolve conflicting label CSS class for trackster.
  `Pull Request 1086`_
* Fix bug with referer attribute type change in WebOb
  `Pull Request 1091`_
* Fix api TS installation
  (Thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1094`_
* Better error when tool shed repo dir missing
  (Thanks to `@lparsons <https://github.com/lparsons>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1107`_
* Don't let $input hang cheetah evaluation...
  `Pull Request 1117`_
* Readd jquery.migrate to galaxy.panels template because it is needed f…
  `Pull Request 1126`_
* Fix for re-installing an uninstalled TS repository with a dependency
  (Thanks to `@gregvonkuster <https://github.com/gregvonkuster>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1154`_
* Fix bugs in test and code introduced in PR `#1113
  <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/issues/1113>`__.
  (Thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1155`_
* Fix interface and usage of WorkflowModule.get_runtime_inputs.
  `Pull Request 1174`_
* Add enhancements to the Galaxy repository install process
  (Thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1193`_
* Tool shed fixes.
  (Thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1200`_
* Fix for updating tool parameter dicts when a new parameter has been added to
  a section
  `Pull Request 1215`_
* replace the readthedocs badge,
  `Pull Request 1229`_
* Replacement should be applied only to first occurrence.
  (Thanks to `@openlangrid <https://github.com/openlangrid>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1230`_
* Export GALAXY_TEST_DBURI as GALAXY_CONFIG_OVERRIDE_DATABASE_CONNECTION
  before installing wheels.
  (Thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1231`_
* Client, upload: fix passing of nginx_upload_path and ftp_upload_site …
  `Pull Request 1250`_
* Fixed indentation errors for Reports
  (Thanks to `@markiskander <https://github.com/markiskander>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1259`_
* UI, Citations: fix require of bibtex parser
  `Pull Request 1261`_
* Open select2 drop down on caret click
  `Pull Request 1298`_
* Improved validation of tools during workflow execution.
  `Pull Request 1302`_
* UI, list of pairs creator: properly remove datasets from the filtered lists
  when pairing
  `Pull Request 1310`_
* Update Kombu and AMQP wheels to fix problems with El Capitan's System
  Integrity Protection
  `Pull Request 1327`_
* Fix for creating workflow outputs on initial workflow upload.
  `Pull Request 1330`_
* Don't bother querying on unencoded IDs for error form
  (Thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1340`_
* Fix optional parameters
  `Pull Request 1343`_
* If GALAXY_SLOTS is defined in the environment, use it for the local r…
  `Pull Request 1346`_
* Use both SLURM_NTASKS and SLURM_CPUS_PER_TASK to set GALAXY_SLOTS
  (Thanks to `@lparsons <https://github.com/lparsons>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1347`_
* Fix for loading workflows that have tool version / step upgrade messages.
  `Pull Request 1348`_
* Allow installation of different repositories with the same name in a …
  (Thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1366`_
* Port marius TS fix
  `Pull Request 1385`_
* Fix bug in db845fa1875bcb08aa2129830f1d405d1d894cfb.
  `Pull Request 1414`_
* Fix url formatting
  `Pull Request 1415`_
* Fix conda installation in debug mode
  (Thanks to `@galaxyproject <https://github.com/galaxyproject>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1421`_
* Fix masthead/menu.js onclick functionality
  `Pull Request 1424`_
* Copy workflow objects when importing them.
  `Pull Request 1474`_
* Cherrypick of pep8 fixes.
  `Pull Request 1487`_
* Set mime type when previewing tabular data that has > 50 columns, but <
  1000000 bytes.
  `Pull Request 1498`_
* Fix disabled css
  `Pull Request 1501`_
* catch Exception and properly log errors
  `Pull Request 1511`_
* Sourcing Conda will write to stderr
  (Thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__.)
  `Pull Request 1527`_
* Test case and fix for issue `#1514
  <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/issues/1514>`__
  `Pull Request 1536`_
* Keep track of hidden datasets
  `Pull Request 1551`_
* Force --skip-venv if we can detect that Python is Conda Python.
  `Pull Request 1554`_
* Fix redundant backbone and visualizations
  `Pull Request 1558`_

.. github_links
.. _Pull Request 564: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/564
.. _Pull Request 805: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/805
.. _Pull Request 818: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/818
.. _Pull Request 827: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/827
.. _Pull Request 853: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/853
.. _Pull Request 856: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/856
.. _Pull Request 857: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/857
.. _Pull Request 859: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/859
.. _Pull Request 863: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/863
.. _Pull Request 864: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/864
.. _Pull Request 865: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/865
.. _Pull Request 866: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/866
.. _Pull Request 872: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/872
.. _Pull Request 874: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/874
.. _Pull Request 875: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/875
.. _Pull Request 876: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/876
.. _Pull Request 877: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/877
.. _Pull Request 881: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/881
.. _Pull Request 889: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/889
.. _Pull Request 891: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/891
.. _Pull Request 892: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/892
.. _Pull Request 893: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/893
.. _Pull Request 898: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/898
.. _Pull Request 901: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/901
.. _Pull Request 902: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/902
.. _Pull Request 905: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/905
.. _Pull Request 907: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/907
.. _Pull Request 908: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/908
.. _Pull Request 909: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/909
.. _Pull Request 912: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/912
.. _Pull Request 914: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/914
.. _Pull Request 916: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/916
.. _Pull Request 918: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/918
.. _Pull Request 924: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/924
.. _Pull Request 929: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/929
.. _Pull Request 938: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/938
.. _Pull Request 942: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/942
.. _Pull Request 944: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/944
.. _Pull Request 947: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/947
.. _Pull Request 949: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/949
.. _Pull Request 950: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/950
.. _Pull Request 952: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/952
.. _Pull Request 955: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/955
.. _Pull Request 956: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/956
.. _Pull Request 959: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/959
.. _Pull Request 960: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/960
.. _Pull Request 969: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/969
.. _Pull Request 971: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/971
.. _Pull Request 985: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/985
.. _Pull Request 988: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/988
.. _Pull Request 989: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/989
.. _Pull Request 990: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/990
.. _Pull Request 991: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/991
.. _Pull Request 994: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/994
.. _Pull Request 995: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/995
.. _Pull Request 996: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/996
.. _Pull Request 997: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/997
.. _Pull Request 1004: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1004
.. _Pull Request 1006: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1006
.. _Pull Request 1010: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1010
.. _Pull Request 1011: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1011
.. _Pull Request 1012: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1012
.. _Pull Request 1013: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1013
.. _Pull Request 1014: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1014
.. _Pull Request 1017: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1017
.. _Pull Request 1018: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1018
.. _Pull Request 1019: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1019
.. _Pull Request 1020: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1020
.. _Pull Request 1025: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1025
.. _Pull Request 1028: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1028
.. _Pull Request 1033: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1033
.. _Pull Request 1037: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1037
.. _Pull Request 1040: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1040
.. _Pull Request 1048: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1048
.. _Pull Request 1049: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1049
.. _Pull Request 1050: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1050
.. _Pull Request 1052: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1052
.. _Pull Request 1063: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1063
.. _Pull Request 1066: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1066
.. _Pull Request 1067: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1067
.. _Pull Request 1069: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1069
.. _Pull Request 1070: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1070
.. _Pull Request 1072: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1072
.. _Pull Request 1073: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1073
.. _Pull Request 1074: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1074
.. _Pull Request 1076: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1076
.. _Pull Request 1078: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1078
.. _Pull Request 1082: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1082
.. _Pull Request 1083: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1083
.. _Pull Request 1086: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1086
.. _Pull Request 1091: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1091
.. _Pull Request 1094: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1094
.. _Pull Request 1095: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1095
.. _Pull Request 1096: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1096
.. _Pull Request 1097: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1097
.. _Pull Request 1098: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1098
.. _Pull Request 1101: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1101
.. _Pull Request 1105: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1105
.. _Pull Request 1107: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1107
.. _Pull Request 1108: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1108
.. _Pull Request 1111: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1111
.. _Pull Request 1113: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1113
.. _Pull Request 1117: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1117
.. _Pull Request 1119: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1119
.. _Pull Request 1123: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1123
.. _Pull Request 1126: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1126
.. _Pull Request 1130: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1130
.. _Pull Request 1131: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1131
.. _Pull Request 1137: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1137
.. _Pull Request 1142: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1142
.. _Pull Request 1144: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1144
.. _Pull Request 1153: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1153
.. _Pull Request 1154: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1154
.. _Pull Request 1155: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1155
.. _Pull Request 1157: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1157
.. _Pull Request 1159: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1159
.. _Pull Request 1160: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1160
.. _Pull Request 1163: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1163
.. _Pull Request 1166: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1166
.. _Pull Request 1174: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1174
.. _Pull Request 1176: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1176
.. _Pull Request 1178: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1178
.. _Pull Request 1179: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1179
.. _Pull Request 1181: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1181
.. _Pull Request 1182: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1182
.. _Pull Request 1184: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1184
.. _Pull Request 1193: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1193
.. _Pull Request 1198: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1198
.. _Pull Request 1199: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1199
.. _Pull Request 1200: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1200
.. _Pull Request 1202: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1202
.. _Pull Request 1209: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1209
.. _Pull Request 1211: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1211
.. _Pull Request 1212: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1212
.. _Pull Request 1213: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1213
.. _Pull Request 1214: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1214
.. _Pull Request 1215: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1215
.. _Pull Request 1216: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1216
.. _Pull Request 1217: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1217
.. _Pull Request 1221: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1221
.. _Pull Request 1226: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1226
.. _Pull Request 1229: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1229
.. _Pull Request 1230: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1230
.. _Pull Request 1231: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1231
.. _Pull Request 1233: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1233
.. _Pull Request 1238: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1238
.. _Pull Request 1243: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1243
.. _Pull Request 1247: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1247
.. _Pull Request 1248: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1248
.. _Pull Request 1249: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1249
.. _Pull Request 1250: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1250
.. _Pull Request 1251: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1251
.. _Pull Request 1253: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1253
.. _Pull Request 1254: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1254
.. _Pull Request 1259: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1259
.. _Pull Request 1261: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1261
.. _Pull Request 1262: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1262
.. _Pull Request 1263: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1263
.. _Pull Request 1271: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1271
.. _Pull Request 1276: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1276
.. _Pull Request 1277: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1277
.. _Pull Request 1279: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1279
.. _Pull Request 1285: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1285
.. _Pull Request 1286: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1286
.. _Pull Request 1292: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1292
.. _Pull Request 1296: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1296
.. _Pull Request 1298: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1298
.. _Pull Request 1299: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1299
.. _Pull Request 1302: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1302
.. _Pull Request 1303: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1303
.. _Pull Request 1306: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1306
.. _Pull Request 1307: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1307
.. _Pull Request 1308: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1308
.. _Pull Request 1310: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1310
.. _Pull Request 1316: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1316
.. _Pull Request 1319: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1319
.. _Pull Request 1320: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1320
.. _Pull Request 1327: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1327
.. _Pull Request 1330: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1330
.. _Pull Request 1340: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1340
.. _Pull Request 1343: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1343
.. _Pull Request 1344: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1344
.. _Pull Request 1345: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1345
.. _Pull Request 1346: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1346
.. _Pull Request 1347: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1347
.. _Pull Request 1348: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1348
.. _Pull Request 1349: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1349
.. _Pull Request 1350: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1350
.. _Pull Request 1351: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1351
.. _Pull Request 1352: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1352
.. _Pull Request 1353: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1353
.. _Pull Request 1354: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1354
.. _Pull Request 1359: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1359
.. _Pull Request 1362: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1362
.. _Pull Request 1363: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1363
.. _Pull Request 1366: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1366
.. _Pull Request 1367: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1367
.. _Pull Request 1368: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1368
.. _Pull Request 1376: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1376
.. _Pull Request 1377: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1377
.. _Pull Request 1385: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1385
.. _Pull Request 1388: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1388
.. _Pull Request 1389: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1389
.. _Pull Request 1393: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1393
.. _Pull Request 1397: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1397
.. _Pull Request 1398: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1398
.. _Pull Request 1399: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1399
.. _Pull Request 1400: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1400
.. _Pull Request 1401: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1401
.. _Pull Request 1405: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1405
.. _Pull Request 1407: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1407
.. _Pull Request 1409: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1409
.. _Pull Request 1412: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1412
.. _Pull Request 1413: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1413
.. _Pull Request 1414: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1414
.. _Pull Request 1415: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1415
.. _Pull Request 1421: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1421
.. _Pull Request 1422: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1422
.. _Pull Request 1424: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1424
.. _Pull Request 1425: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1425
.. _Pull Request 1427: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1427
.. _Pull Request 1430: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1430
.. _Pull Request 1438: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1438
.. _Pull Request 1439: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1439
.. _Pull Request 1448: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1448
.. _Pull Request 1464: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1464
.. _Pull Request 1473: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1473
.. _Pull Request 1474: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1474
.. _Pull Request 1485: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1485
.. _Pull Request 1487: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1487
.. _Pull Request 1494: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1494
.. _Pull Request 1498: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1498
.. _Pull Request 1501: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1501
.. _Pull Request 1511: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1511
.. _Pull Request 1527: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1527
.. _Pull Request 1536: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1536
.. _Pull Request 1551: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1551
.. _Pull Request 1554: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1554
.. _Pull Request 1558: https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/1558
