
===========================================================
July 2016 Galaxy Release (v 16.07)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**Shift of Galaxy tool dependencies to Conda**
  Galaxy admins obtained the ability to install Galaxy tool's
  dependencies using the Conda package manager. This is a Beta feature
  and we encourage interested deployers to opt-in by modifying configuration.
  Documentation that explains this switch and answers FAQ is `available <https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/master/admin/conda_faq.html>`__.

**Dynamic tool destinations**
  Our friends from Canada National Microbiology Laboratory enhanced
  Galaxy with feature that allows dynamic mapping of tools to destinations
  based on finer grained admin-specified rules. Please see the
  `wiki <https://wiki.galaxyproject.org/Admin/Config/Jobs#Dynamic_Destination_Mapping>`__.
  Implemented in `PR #2579 <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/2579>`__

**Galaxy chat**
  Admins can now plug in the included communication server to enable
  users of their instance to use real-time chat within the Galaxy interface.
  Please see the `documentation <https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/master/admin/chat.html>`__
  to learn how to activate and use this feature.
  Implemented in `PR #2515 <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/2515>`__

`Github <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy>`__
===========================================================

New Galaxy repository
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git clone -b release_16.07 https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy.git

Update of existing Galaxy repository
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git checkout release_16.07 && git pull --ff-only origin release_16.07

See `our wiki <https://wiki.galaxyproject.org/Develop/SourceCode>`__ for additional details regarding the source code locations.

Deprecation Notices
===========================================================

The following URLs will be removed and should be considered deprecated:
 * ``<galaxy>\history\as_xml``
 * ``<galaxy>\history\list_as_xml``

Release Notes
===========================================================

.. include:: 16.07.rst
   :start-after: announce_start

.. include:: _thanks.rst
