
===========================================================
October 2016 Galaxy Release (v 16.10)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
==========

**Galaxu UI plugins - Webhooks**
  We introduce Galaxy Webhooks - optional plugins for the web UI that allow for better customization of your instance. See the `documentation <https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/master/admin/webhooks.html>`__.
  Includes work from `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__, `@anatskiy <https://github.com/anatskiy>`__, and Joachim Wolff `@joachimwolff <https://github.com/joachimwolff>`__.
  Implemented in `Pull Request 3040`_.

**Workflow run form replaced**
  The workflow run form has been replaced by one backed by the new tool form and the API. Nicer, faster, standardized.
  Implemented in `Pull Request 2669`_, `Pull Request 2720`_, `Pull Request 2766`_,
  `Pull Request 2776`_, `Pull Request 2770`_, `Pull Request 2895`_,
  `Pull Request 2935`_, `Pull Request 3007`_, `Pull Request 2969`_,
  `Pull Request 2799`_, `Pull Request 3082`_, `Pull Request 2672`_,
  `Pull Request 2920`_, `Pull Request 2777`_, `Pull Request 2902`_.

**Automatic tool reload after installation**
  Galaxy does not need to be restarted after tool installation anymore. This provides a smoother experience for the users. Yay!
  Thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__.
  Implemented in `Pull Request 2840`_, `Pull Request 3025`_.

Get Galaxy
==========

The code lives at `Github <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy>`__ and you should have `Git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ to obtain it.

To get a new Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git clone -b release_16.10 https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy.git

To update an existing Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git checkout release_16.10 && git pull --ff-only origin release_16.10

See `our wiki <https://wiki.galaxyproject.org/Develop/SourceCode>`__ for additional details regarding the source code location.

Deprecation Notices
===================

* API-like endpoints (returning JSON) that start with ``<galaxy>/root/`` in the URL are now deprecated and will be removed in future releases. Please use proper API (e.g. ``/api/histories`` or ``/api/tools``) to replace your implementations.
* The ``jsonp`` parameter for search API endpoints in Tool Shed is deprecated and will be removed in the future. Instead the presence of a ``callback`` argument will trigger the JSONP format to be returned.

Security
========

An arbitrary code execution vulnerability in two tools and an XSS vulnerability
with the upload tool were identified this release cycle and have been fixed
concurrently with the release. In addition, the fixes have been backported to
older releases.

The Galaxy Committers would like to thank David Wyde for disclosing these
vulnerabilities. Details follow:

1. The vulnerable tools are "Filter GFF data by attribute" and "Filter GFF data
   by feature count", both of which are provided with and enabled by default in
   the Galaxy server. These two tools share code with each other and the more
   general "Filter data on any column using simple expressions" tool. The
   latter was fixed in a previous security disclosure but these GFF variants of
   the tool were missed when updating the Filter tool. These tools use the
   Python ``eval`` and ``exec`` functions and do not properly sanitize input to
   these functions. The fix for this issue has been applied to Galaxy releases
   back to v14.10 and can be found in `Commit c1e3087`_

2. An uploaded file's name was not properly sanitized, and so a specially
   crafted filename uploaded to the Galaxy server could be used as an XSS
   attack vector. The fix for this issue has been applied to Galaxy releases
   back to v16.07 and can be found in `Pull Request 3278`_.

Release Notes
=============

.. include:: 16.10.rst
   :start-after: announce_start

.. include:: _thanks.rst
