
===========================================================
September 2019 Galaxy Release (v 19.09)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**Feature1**
  Feature description.

**Feature2**
  Feature description.

**Feature3**
  Feature description.


New Visualizations
===========================================================

.. visualizations
* New visualization - free style image annotation
  (thanks to `@anuprulez <https://github.com/anuprulez>`__).
  `Pull Request 6891`_
* New visualization - OpenLayers maps.
  (thanks to `@anuprulez <https://github.com/anuprulez>`__).
  `Pull Request 7888`_
* New visualization - hyphy-vision
  (thanks to `@veg <https://github.com/veg>`__).
  `Pull Request 8227`_
* Add external display application plugin for iCn3D.
  `Pull Request 8347`_

New Datatypes
===========================================================

.. datatypes

* Adding Shapefile composite datatype
  (thanks to `@Alanamosse <https://github.com/Alanamosse>`__).
  `Pull Request 7615`_
* Add mcool datatype and extend h5 tool output testing
  (thanks to `@msauria <https://github.com/msauria>`__).
  `Pull Request 7993`_
* Add hyphy_results.json datatype
  (thanks to `@veg <https://github.com/veg>`__).
  `Pull Request 8186`_
* Add pgp and osw datatypes as used in OpenSWATH experiments
  (thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__).
  `Pull Request 8458`_
* Add ckpt datatype
  (thanks to `@astrovsky01 <https://github.com/astrovsky01>`__).
  `Pull Request 8086`_
* Add dada2 datatypes
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 7895`_
* Add rDock active site datatype
  (thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__).
  `Pull Request 8727`_
* Add Kallistobus datatypes
  (thanks to `@astrovsky01 <https://github.com/astrovsky01>`__).
  `Pull Request 8229`_

Builtin Tool Updates
===========================================================

.. tools

* Various collection operation tool improvements
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 8038`_
* Enhance unzip/zip collection collection operation to annotate output format properly
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 8239`_

Release Notes
===========================================================

Please see the `full release notes <19.09_announce.html>`_ for more details.

.. include:: 19.09_prs.rst

.. include:: _thanks.rst
