
.. to_doc

19.05
===============================

.. announce_start

Enhancements
-------------------------------

.. major_feature


.. feature
* Dataset Checksum
  `Pull Request 4659`_
* Handling out of memory for cli-plugin runner (LSF only).
  (thanks to `@pcm32 <https://github.com/pcm32>`__).
  `Pull Request 6866`_
* Custos integration
  (thanks to `@machristie <https://github.com/machristie>`__).
  `Pull Request 7195`_
* introduce the ability to favorite tools
  `Pull Request 7209`_
* Determine collection_type for all workflow steps
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7254`_
* Handle subworkflows in view workflow mako
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7276`_
* Drop support for Python 3.4. Officially support Python >=3.5
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7291`_
* Rework and Generalize History Import and Export
  `Pull Request 7367`_
* implement sniffing of datatypes for lddas
  `Pull Request 7379`_
* experiment - run all travis tests on circleci
  `Pull Request 7424`_
* Update to PSA 3.1 and support login with Globus identity
  `Pull Request 7463`_
* More robust task messaging
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7548`_
* Add data dialog option to tool form data selector
  `Pull Request 7553`_
* Add mtx datatype
  (thanks to `@bebatut <https://github.com/bebatut>`__).
  `Pull Request 7569`_
* Make LSF project configurable in job
  (thanks to `@pcm32 <https://github.com/pcm32>`__).
  `Pull Request 7581`_
* Add a DELETE api for CloudAuthz
  `Pull Request 7598`_
* Add GeoJSON datatype
  (thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__).
  `Pull Request 7773`_
* Add general purpose expression tool
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7796`_
* Add shapefile datatype
  (thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__).
  `Pull Request 7819`_


.. enhancement
* Batch bulk hide and delete operations when multi-selected.
  `Pull Request 5495`_
* Replace registration mako with vue component
  `Pull Request 6621`_
* Ts api improvements
  `Pull Request 6652`_
* Kubernetes job runner integration test and enhancements
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 6958`_
* Replace login mako with Vue component
  `Pull Request 7047`_
* More Structured Job I/O Tracking
  `Pull Request 7095`_
* Client initialization pipeline
  (thanks to `@Nerdinacan <https://github.com/Nerdinacan>`__).
  `Pull Request 7117`_
* Remove collect_outputs_from option.
  `Pull Request 7144`_
* Allow storing objects in the object store by UUID.
  `Pull Request 7154`_
* Cleanup, test, and fix metadata collection code.
  `Pull Request 7158`_
* Add python to Count1 tool requirements
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7185`_
* Eslint
  `Pull Request 7202`_
* group: don't remove empty cells at the begin/start of lines
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 7205`_
* Re-add a `py27-first-startup` Travis job on osx
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7207`_
* Fix global var badness in setup_external_metadata
  `Pull Request 7213`_
* Cleanup History Export CLI Call
  `Pull Request 7214`_
* Dependency update and doc fixes
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7215`_
* Drop conditional pygmentz requirement (autoinstalled as necessary), minor
  formatting in conditional-reqs
  `Pull Request 7219`_
* Fix spacing between checkbox and buttons in history sharing view
  `Pull Request 7222`_
* Added galaxy cloud runner
  (thanks to `@nuwang <https://github.com/nuwang>`__).
  `Pull Request 7226`_
* Use regular font-size and styling in uploader
  `Pull Request 7232`_
* remove underline from history datasets
  `Pull Request 7235`_
* Add converters between tabular and CSV.
  `Pull Request 7246`_
* Remove unneeded conditional requirements
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7247`_
* Add a Galaxy IE for cellxgene.
  `Pull Request 7268`_
* Add Azure and GCP support for ObjectStore Cloud backend
  `Pull Request 7272`_
*  Update all dependencies
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7285`_
* Fix remaining selenium tests and add headless testing option.
  `Pull Request 7287`_
* Add a validator that ensures one metadata is between min and max values
  (thanks to `@fmareuil <https://github.com/fmareuil>`__).
  `Pull Request 7288`_
*  Build tool XML schema docs using ``sphinx_markdown_tables``
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7313`_
* Support loading/using tools that are not in the install database
  `Pull Request 7316`_
* Refactor dataset controller to reuse input validation checks between get/set
  `Pull Request 7322`_
* Add note about Range support
  (thanks to `@pvanheus <https://github.com/pvanheus>`__).
  `Pull Request 7323`_
* Remove logout mako, redirect to login page
  `Pull Request 7329`_
* Add note about HTTP Range also to Apache docs
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7334`_
* Fall back to binary comparison if BAM conversion fails
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 7342`_
* Update ``area`` issue/PR labels
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7344`_
* Remove ``ToolsController._rerun_tool()`` API method
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7345`_
* Refactor item_attrs for reuse without mixin inheritance.
  `Pull Request 7346`_
* Overhaul OIDC login handling
  `Pull Request 7347`_
* Add --force_path_paste argument to tool test verify script.
  `Pull Request 7356`_
* Separate client node version requirement into individual dotfile for …
  `Pull Request 7357`_
* Eliminate web framework import in history export.
  `Pull Request 7358`_
* test: added a test check for counting paired collections
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 7359`_
* Remove unused exported variables in history export.
  `Pull Request 7363`_
* Remove pin on Sphinx. Update all dependencies
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7365`_
* Remove another unused variables from history export.
  `Pull Request 7366`_
* Simplify tag handling in history export.
  `Pull Request 7369`_
* Reduce comment spam in history import/export.
  `Pull Request 7370`_
* Do not default to DEV_WHEELS=1 if no Git is found
  (thanks to `@ic4f <https://github.com/ic4f>`__).
  `Pull Request 7371`_
* Restore gray scale difference between panel vs portlet background color for
  contrast
  `Pull Request 7387`_
* specify generic exceptions more precisely
  `Pull Request 7397`_
* Environment modules mapping
  (thanks to `@FredericBGA <https://github.com/FredericBGA>`__).
  `Pull Request 7398`_
* ENH: multifile zip testing
  (thanks to `@thermokarst <https://github.com/thermokarst>`__).
  `Pull Request 7400`_
* Automatically set cookie_path using url_for()
  `Pull Request 7404`_
* Allow configuration location of user preferences extra configuration
  (thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__).
  `Pull Request 7428`_
* Allow connecting nested collections to multiple=true inputs in workflow
  editor
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7435`_
* Add tool hover
  (thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__).
  `Pull Request 7437`_
* New testing image
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7439`_
* Inform users if an exception has happened authenticating via OIDC
  `Pull Request 7442`_
* Remove unused code
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7445`_
* Adding microarrays data types Gpr and Gal
  (thanks to `@bensellak <https://github.com/bensellak>`__).
  `Pull Request 7457`_
* set_metadata "unit" tests
  `Pull Request 7459`_
* Upgrade data dialog, allow selection of datasets within collections
  `Pull Request 7460`_
* Note `cannot import name _remove_dead_weakref` error and solution
  (thanks to `@pvanheus <https://github.com/pvanheus>`__).
  `Pull Request 7461`_
* Don't display outputs that aren't going to be produced in workflow editor
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7466`_
* Implement portable metadata generation.
  `Pull Request 7470`_
* added option to pass in individual globs to unit test watcher
  (thanks to `@Nerdinacan <https://github.com/Nerdinacan>`__).
  `Pull Request 7477`_
* Update of tours overview according to `#5860
  <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/issues/5860>`__
  (thanks to `@selten <https://github.com/selten>`__).
  `Pull Request 7478`_
* Fix post job actions for Database Operation tools, implement change_datatype
  for collection output
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7480`_
* Log exception in set_metadata.py.
  `Pull Request 7483`_
* Git providers error reporting plugins
  (thanks to `@selten <https://github.com/selten>`__).
  `Pull Request 7485`_
* Implement dataset source and hash tracking.
  `Pull Request 7487`_
* Add new metadata and data table tool validators
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 7500`_
* Slightly improved import/export testing.
  `Pull Request 7505`_
* Legacy History Import Testing
  `Pull Request 7507`_
* Redefining Cel data type
  (thanks to `@bensellak <https://github.com/bensellak>`__).
  `Pull Request 7514`_
* Updated documentation in admin/scaling.md
  (thanks to `@ooobik <https://github.com/ooobik>`__).
  `Pull Request 7515`_
* Replace backbone tagging views with components
  (thanks to `@Nerdinacan <https://github.com/Nerdinacan>`__).
  `Pull Request 7516`_
* Eliminate import dependency of datatypes on galaxy.web (url_for).
  `Pull Request 7521`_
* Decompose Galaxy into Python libraries in-tree.
  `Pull Request 7524`_
* User facing release notes
  (thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__).
  `Pull Request 7527`_
* Static plugin staging as a part of client build instead of startup
  `Pull Request 7532`_
* Swap from 'slug.js' to 'slugify.js'.  Saves 10 MB in client bundles.
  `Pull Request 7538`_
* run circleCI on merge rather than head of PR's fork
  `Pull Request 7539`_
* Client dep upgrades 19 03
  `Pull Request 7544`_
* Allow Admins to Import Dynamic JSON-based Tools
  `Pull Request 7545`_
* Dockerized variant of update.sh for project dependencies.
  `Pull Request 7546`_
* Refactor XSD output elements to share common output attributes.
  `Pull Request 7555`_
* Implement expression tools and non-data tool outputs.
  `Pull Request 7556`_
* Improve linking between job conf handler assignment and documentation
  (thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__).
  `Pull Request 7558`_
* Refactor galaxy.web.security into galaxy.security.idencoding.
  `Pull Request 7560`_
* move the 'create new history' out of the history context menu
  `Pull Request 7565`_
* trim down travis config, only run osx first startup
  `Pull Request 7574`_
* Add ImgtJson datatype for IMGT immune system libraries
  (thanks to `@jj-umn <https://github.com/jj-umn>`__).
  `Pull Request 7587`_
* Add ``py35-first_startup`` macOS job to Travis
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7589`_
* improve workflow cog menu ux
  `Pull Request 7594`_
* Make galaxy.model.dataset_collections more usable outside manager context.
  `Pull Request 7595`_
* Eliminate duplication in generating input/output dicts for jobs.
  `Pull Request 7596`_
* Serialize the config attribute of an authnz record as a json object.
  `Pull Request 7597`_
* Webpack bundle overhaul and initial dynamic loading.
  `Pull Request 7605`_
* History panel header button organization, tweaks.
  `Pull Request 7606`_
* Add a PUT api for CloudAuthz
  `Pull Request 7609`_
* Don't unhide mapped-over outputs when job fails
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7630`_
* Update to bootstrap 4.3
  `Pull Request 7637`_
* Delete cloudauthz record from database instead of marking it as deleted
  `Pull Request 7639`_
* Continue gracefully in set_meta if unable to count number of dataset lines.
  `Pull Request 7641`_
* Provide feedback on why workflow editor nodes won't connect.
  `Pull Request 7642`_
* Implement functional dict-ifiable tool outputs and error detection.
  `Pull Request 7651`_
* Refactor IntegrationTestCase to allow integration test functions.
  `Pull Request 7657`_
* Allow import of format2 workflows by default for 19.05.
  `Pull Request 7659`_
* Drop .pyc files before attempting to migrate
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7677`_
* Implicit conversion for input collection parameters
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7683`_
* Script to populate datasets/libraries directly into an objectstore and model
  store.
  `Pull Request 7684`_
* Add docs to OIDC backends configuration file.
  `Pull Request 7691`_
* Update CITATION to latest Galaxy update paper
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7698`_
* Allow discovering collections for build model object script.
  `Pull Request 7704`_
* exempt notes, changelogs, and packages from mandatory review
  `Pull Request 7706`_
* relax the vote requirement for fixing bugs in releases
  `Pull Request 7707`_
* Improve error message if GFF file is missing attribute col
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7708`_
* Add hostname to task message queues
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7712`_
* spaln database type
  (thanks to `@pvanheus <https://github.com/pvanheus>`__).
  `Pull Request 7718`_
* OIDC login buttons based on configuration
  (thanks to `@machristie <https://github.com/machristie>`__).
  `Pull Request 7720`_
* Many more migration fixes
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7737`_
* Python dependency upgrades
  `Pull Request 7740`_
* Enable the selection of library datasets in the tool form
  `Pull Request 7746`_
* Replace ``enable_beta_export_format2_default`` with
  ``default_workflow_export_format``
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7748`_
* Workflow editor accessibility fixes
  `Pull Request 7750`_
* Report a couple common errors in dataset/job report.
  `Pull Request 7755`_
* Add singularity to valid types, allow customization of test history name
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7760`_
* Update parameter_input type when changing parameter type
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7780`_
* Hide ExpressionTools in main analysis app
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7797`_
* Don't clean up jobs when running tests if `$GALAXY_TEST_NO_CLEANUP` is set
  `Pull Request 7798`_
* Add option to wait for db to become available
  (thanks to `@ic4f <https://github.com/ic4f>`__).
  `Pull Request 7827`_
* Remove recursion from ``expand_nested_tokens()``
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7834`_
* Allow composite upload if all non-optional files are selected
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7872`_
* Cleanup integration test configuration code.
  `Pull Request 7874`_
* Add Reset button to composite upload interface
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7875`_
* Add local namespaced resolver to default container resolvers
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7896`_
* Allow mapping over of expression tool params
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7944`_
* Use node-watch instead of fs.watch to watch for db changes
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7967`_
* Update tool output datatype in workflow editor if datatype changes
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7989`_


.. small_enhancement
* Remove reset handler from ruler input element
  `Pull Request 6321`_
* declutter the history 'cog' menu
  `Pull Request 6437`_
* Remove deprecated OpenID features
  `Pull Request 7028`_
* Stronger ToolProvidedMetadata abstraction.
  `Pull Request 7156`_
* Replace custom UI colors with equivalent theme colors, consolidate color
  handling
  `Pull Request 7203`_
* Use es6 literal for library toolbar header, use icon buttons, left align
  `Pull Request 7234`_
* Modest refactoring of the migration stages code.
  `Pull Request 7248`_
* Tagging component
  (thanks to `@Nerdinacan <https://github.com/Nerdinacan>`__).
  `Pull Request 7270`_
* Define doctype method on XMLParser target
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7303`_
* Refactor galaxy.util.handlers -> galaxy.web.stack.handlers.
  `Pull Request 7339`_
* Drop unused install keyword and load TS workflows with utf-8 encoding
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7423`_
* Collected Refactoring of Job Output Handling Code
  `Pull Request 7471`_
* Fix default value handling of color parameter
  `Pull Request 7475`_
* remove biostar integrations
  `Pull Request 7510`_
* Move create_history_template out of galaxy.util.
  `Pull Request 7522`_
* Refactor galaxy.web.form_builder into galaxy.util.form_builder.
  `Pull Request 7529`_
* Refactor TagManager (back) to TagHandler.
  `Pull Request 7530`_
* Refactor output_collect.py toward a database session-less modality.
  `Pull Request 7541`_
* Drop d3 from publicly provided libs
  `Pull Request 7542`_
* Fix dependency cycle between galaxy.security and galaxy.model.
  `Pull Request 7554`_
* Refactor galaxy.dataset_collections into galaxy.model.dataset_collections.
  `Pull Request 7588`_
* Large refactoring of model migrations
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7621`_
* Toastr debowerization, refactoring.
  `Pull Request 7640`_
* popup-menu.js error handling tweaks
  `Pull Request 7643`_
* Fix client styleguide asset handling
  `Pull Request 7664`_
* Tags remove_tags_from_list fix update
  `Pull Request 7680`_
* More refactoring of model migrations
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7695`_
* Rename _future_expose_api to expose_api, expose_api to legacy_expose_api
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7743`_
* Remove close option from workflow gear menu
  `Pull Request 7858`_
* Add linting and enforce prefer-const rule for client codebase
  `Pull Request 7860`_
* Interactive Environment Fixes
  `Pull Request 7917`_



Fixes
-------------------------------

.. major_bug


.. bug
* Fix workflow output rectification
  `Pull Request 7101`_
* make job script actually return tool exit code
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 7147`_
* Fix regeneration of metadata files for types besides bam during import.
  `Pull Request 7186`_
* Transfer back testing image to galaxy namespace
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7187`_
* Fix error handling in export_history jobs.
  `Pull Request 7192`_
* Simplify history import to fix extra files and ObjectStore interactions.
  `Pull Request 7193`_
* Fix galaxy instance access in visualizations
  `Pull Request 7198`_
* Assorted component bugfixes
  `Pull Request 7200`_
* Update IE proxy dependencies
  `Pull Request 7208`_
* univa: code cleanup
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 7210`_
* Verify/update .venv's node version
  `Pull Request 7220`_
* Update ``use_interactive`` default in docs
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7221`_
* Fix hotdata method access;
  `Pull Request 7256`_
* Fix saving imported subworkflows
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7262`_
* Fix "occured" typo everywhere
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7266`_
* Fix flakey history import metadata test
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7279`_
* Do not skip the client build in dockerized selenium tests
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7280`_
* Fixes for the cluster documentation
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7281`_
* Fix ObjectNotFound exception when exporting an history
  (thanks to `@abretaud <https://github.com/abretaud>`__).
  `Pull Request 7286`_
*  Do not remove tools from other installed revisions when uninstalling TS
  repo
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7300`_
* Remove unused keyword in resend email helper
  `Pull Request 7315`_
* Fix popupmenu creation
  `Pull Request 7318`_
* Fix trackster toolbox filter for logged-in users
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7319`_
* Remove overlapping tooltip from dropdown button in library toolbar
  `Pull Request 7321`_
* ui fixes to datalibs
  `Pull Request 7337`_
* Fix ``test_import_metadata_regeneration`` API test
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7340`_
* Possible fix for fasta file never getting filesize
  (thanks to `@Slugger70 <https://github.com/Slugger70>`__).
  `Pull Request 7374`_
* Fix upload button style
  `Pull Request 7381`_
* Fix link doc syntax
  (thanks to `@galaxyproject <https://github.com/galaxyproject>`__).
  `Pull Request 7388`_
* Update application documentation
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7391`_
* Remove openid related legacy check
  `Pull Request 7395`_
* Fix pie chart and portlet height in flexboxes
  `Pull Request 7396`_
* Fix LocalShellRunner
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7438`_
* Remove or replace references to Biostars
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7443`_
* Use a lock on cleanup, expire_tool and cache_tool
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7446`_
* Fix loading workflows with steps without default label
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7448`_
* Remove broken tool_submission_burst
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7449`_
* Fix shallow clone on CircleCI for PRs
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7451`_
* Restore get_filename to galaxy.tools.verify:verify()
  `Pull Request 7452`_
* Fix doc for statsd conf for uwsgi?
  (thanks to `@abretaud <https://github.com/abretaud>`__).
  `Pull Request 7453`_
* Fix hidden parameter use in workflows
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7458`_
* fix syntax of xsd tool schema
  `Pull Request 7462`_
* Fix workflow building typo
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7472`_
* correct virtualenv download with no wget/curl
  (thanks to `@hmenager <https://github.com/hmenager>`__).
  `Pull Request 7476`_
* Use a relative output.publicPath to avoid 404 errors when serving with a url
  prefix
  (thanks to `@abretaud <https://github.com/abretaud>`__).
  `Pull Request 7481`_
* Update Platform LSF to Spectrum LSF
  (thanks to `@selten <https://github.com/selten>`__).
  `Pull Request 7486`_
* Restrict loading of JSON files on the server via the workflow API to Galaxy
  admins
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7499`_
* Fix warning message formatting in sharing controller
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7504`_
* Make sure ``temp_output_dir`` path is absolute
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7517`_
* Create directory before copying file there
  (thanks to `@pvanheus <https://github.com/pvanheus>`__).
  `Pull Request 7519`_
* Fix routing when serving Galaxy at a prefix
  `Pull Request 7523`_
* Fix displaying and editing SelectTagParameters in workflow editor
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7534`_
* Small object store fixes.
  `Pull Request 7536`_
* Fix logic around importing histories and deleted datasets.
  `Pull Request 7537`_
* History Import/Export Fixes and Enhancements Ahead of New Format
  `Pull Request 7540`_
* Fix entering workflow parameter in workflow run form
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7543`_
* Extend reload test case logging
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7547`_
* Fix dataset checksum database migration downgrade.
  `Pull Request 7549`_
* Correct db-self handler assignment method
  (thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__).
  `Pull Request 7561`_
* Fix database config doctests when env vars are in use for dburi
  `Pull Request 7562`_
* Fix help warnings style
  `Pull Request 7566`_
* Fix running CircleCI on PR merge
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7573`_
* Makefile: run bootstrap_history.py inside the VENV
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7584`_
* Update cloud imports to adhere with cloudbridge interface changes.
  `Pull Request 7586`_
* Fix RStudio GIE
  (thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__).
  `Pull Request 7590`_
* Format authnz-related api responses as JSON objects.
  `Pull Request 7592`_
* Fix styleguide
  `Pull Request 7602`_
* Fix history options menu href navigation
  `Pull Request 7612`_
* Minor cli and metadata fixes
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7614`_
* Improve string escaping and changeset validation on toolshed
  `Pull Request 7616`_
* Delay workflow step execution for discovered & mapped-over input
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7633`_
* Fix float to int casting
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7634`_
* Adjust test_run_with_numeric_input_connection to extra line
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7645`_
* Fix incorrect lddas being used as collection members
  `Pull Request 7646`_
* Fix genomespace_importer tool
  `Pull Request 7647`_
* Fix composite data and metadata file handling for UUID object stores
  `Pull Request 7650`_
* Bugfix for input selection w/ tag representation in ui-select-default
  `Pull Request 7658`_
* Drop now unused import endpoint from workflow controller.
  `Pull Request 7660`_
* Fix for trans.redirect not setting cookies/headers.
  `Pull Request 7663`_
* Fix shutdown for Pulsar MQ Runner
  `Pull Request 7667`_
* Bugfix: when removing tags from a dataset, only the first tag can be removed
  (thanks to `@gtrack <https://github.com/gtrack>`__).
  `Pull Request 7674`_
* Bugfix: "Run workflow" jumps when clicked
  (thanks to `@gtrack <https://github.com/gtrack>`__).
  `Pull Request 7675`_
* Restores OpenID post authentication protocols
  `Pull Request 7676`_
* Detect errors using exit_code for sort tool
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7679`_
* Fix format_source for implicit conversion inputs and fasta.gz upload
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7682`_
* Plugin static staging fix
  `Pull Request 7689`_
* Fix side panel styling, adjust appearance in reports
  `Pull Request 7690`_
* Fix pulsar remote metadata with metadata_strategy == 'directory'.
  `Pull Request 7694`_
* Patch for metadata setting of minimal BIOM1 files
  (thanks to `@bebatut <https://github.com/bebatut>`__).
  `Pull Request 7696`_
* Fix genomespace exporter tool
  `Pull Request 7697`_
* Only check for exit code on actual sort command
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7699`_
* Relax the 1st line sniffing for mtx (not only real coordinate)
  (thanks to `@bebatut <https://github.com/bebatut>`__).
  `Pull Request 7702`_
* Update pytest-posgresql to 1.4.0, which removes a hard dependency on
  psycopg2
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7703`_
* Fix runner param validation in the DRMAA runner
  `Pull Request 7709`_
* Restrict workflow invocation index to current user
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7711`_
* Copy tools_by_id before collecting dependency status
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7713`_
* Fix uWSGI startup with separate ini file under Python 3
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7716`_
* Fix mtx datatype sniffer configuration
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7717`_
* Fix (re)starting Galaxy using paste, ``GALAXY_RUN_ALL=1`` and ``--wait``
  under macOS
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7722`_
* Fix check on links in ``CompressedFile.safemembers()``
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7723`_
* Unpause dependent jobs when resuming jobs
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7724`_
* Commented-out cloudbridge requirement for the cloud/send tool.
  `Pull Request 7727`_
* Fix comments
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7738`_
* Upgrade pulsar-galaxy-lib to 0.9.0
  `Pull Request 7744`_
* Fix automatic user registration
  `Pull Request 7749`_
* Sanitize html in messages using galaxy.util.sanitize_html
  `Pull Request 7751`_
* Fix Kubernetes integration tests for Docker on Mac.
  `Pull Request 7754`_
* Define fontawesome icon in login component using 'i' and not 'icon'
  `Pull Request 7756`_
* Fix BootstrapVue component specification in Citations
  `Pull Request 7778`_
* Symlink two more images that are accessed via non-webpack'd applicati…
  `Pull Request 7779`_
* Make url_get return unicode
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7782`_
* Disable flexible spreading of radio buttons by default
  `Pull Request 7788`_
* Fix various Python deprecations
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7800`_
* Return HTTP 400 for `GET /api/datasets/nonexistent_id`
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7806`_
* Encode email messages using UTF-8
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7812`_
* Fix nested macro/token expansion on python 3
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7823`_
* Possible fix for WSGI process issue `#7758
  <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/issues/7758>`__
  (thanks to `@tmcgowan <https://github.com/tmcgowan>`__).
  `Pull Request 7824`_
* Fix InputValueWrapper gt/ge/lt/le comparisons
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7826`_
* Fix grouping1 with modern sort, fix test data
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7844`_
* Fix trackster issue w/ constraining (overflow:non-visible) containers
  `Pull Request 7845`_
* improve upload ux
  `Pull Request 7848`_
* Adjust appearance of user creation form in admin panel
  `Pull Request 7851`_
* Use just the env name when checking ``CONDA_DEFAULT_ENV``
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7853`_
* Fix workflow extraction for jobs whose JobToDatasetOutputAssociation
  references a discovered dataset
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7855`_
* Fix flag for library dataset option in data selector
  `Pull Request 7859`_
* Rev pulsar for latest fixes.
  `Pull Request 7865`_
* Fix bug preventing handler runner plugin handling.
  `Pull Request 7870`_
* Fix click targeting for quota usage details
  (thanks to `@WilliamHolden <https://github.com/WilliamHolden>`__).
  `Pull Request 7877`_
* Allow typing e in float param field
  (thanks to `@WilliamHolden <https://github.com/WilliamHolden>`__).
  `Pull Request 7880`_
* Update Cheetah dependency, fixes ``AssertionError``
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7887`_
* Fix application of history default permissions to anonymous histories
  carried over upon login
  `Pull Request 7904`_
* Fix multi-history copying of collections.
  `Pull Request 7906`_
* Remove GFF headers during conversion and test fix
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7916`_
* Fix community tags showing JSON file
  (thanks to `@WilliamHolden <https://github.com/WilliamHolden>`__).
  `Pull Request 7923`_
* Fix default image
  (thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__).
  `Pull Request 7925`_
* Fix upload of gzipped VCF files
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7933`_
* Fix doc building
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7934`_
* Listen to history changes in tool form until job has been submitted
  `Pull Request 7943`_
* Include type in subworkflow parameter input module
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7972`_
* Fix attachable for multiple="true" list input
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7979`_
* Fixed wrong example for amqp_ack_republish_time in
  job_conf.xml.sample_advanced
  (thanks to `@AndreasSko <https://github.com/AndreasSko>`__).
  `Pull Request 7983`_
* Backport `#7995 <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/issues/7995>`__
  `Pull Request 8000`_
* Add missing commits from `#7995
  <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/issues/7995>`__ backport
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 8004`_
* Fix repo cache when no install database is present
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 8021`_
* Disable create user button while request is being processed
  `Pull Request 8029`_


.. include:: 19.05_prs.rst

