
===========================================================
May 2019 Galaxy Release (v 19.05)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**Feature1**
  Feature description.

**Feature2**
  Feature description.

**Feature3**
  Feature description.


New Visualisations
===========================================================

.. datatypes
* Add converters between tabular and CSV.
  `Pull Request 7246`_
* Drop support for Python 3.4. Officially support Python >=3.5
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7291`_
* ENH: multifile zip testing
  (thanks to `@thermokarst <https://github.com/thermokarst>`__).
  `Pull Request 7400`_
* Adding microarrays data types Gpr and Gal
  (thanks to `@bensellak <https://github.com/bensellak>`__).
  `Pull Request 7457`_
* Redefining Cel data type
  (thanks to `@bensellak <https://github.com/bensellak>`__).
  `Pull Request 7514`_
* Add mtx datatype
  (thanks to `@bebatut <https://github.com/bebatut>`__).
  `Pull Request 7569`_
* Add ImgtJson datatype for IMGT immune system libraries
  (thanks to `@jj-umn <https://github.com/jj-umn>`__).
  `Pull Request 7587`_
* Continue gracefully in set_meta if unable to count number of dataset lines.
  `Pull Request 7641`_
* Fix format_source for implicit conversion inputs and fasta.gz upload
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7682`_
* Patch for metadata setting of minimal BIOM1 files
  (thanks to `@bebatut <https://github.com/bebatut>`__).
  `Pull Request 7696`_
* Relax the 1st line sniffing for mtx (not only real coordinate)
  (thanks to `@bebatut <https://github.com/bebatut>`__).
  `Pull Request 7702`_
* Improve error message if GFF file is missing attribute col
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7708`_
* Fix mtx datatype sniffer configuration
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7717`_
* spaln database type
  (thanks to `@pvanheus <https://github.com/pvanheus>`__).
  `Pull Request 7718`_
* Add GeoJSON datatype
  (thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__).
  `Pull Request 7773`_
* Add shapefile datatype
  (thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__).
  `Pull Request 7819`_
* Fix upload of gzipped VCF files
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 7933`_

New Datatypes
===========================================================

.. visualizations
* Fix galaxy instance access in visualizations
  `Pull Request 7198`_
* Fix pie chart and portlet height in flexboxes
  `Pull Request 7396`_
* Drop d3 from publicly provided libs
  `Pull Request 7542`_
* Fix trackster issue w/ constraining (overflow:non-visible) containers
  `Pull Request 7845`_
* Interactive Environment Fixes
  `Pull Request 7917`_

Builtin Tool Updates
===========================================================

.. tools
* Add python to Count1 tool requirements
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7185`_
* group: don't remove empty cells at the begin/start of lines
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 7205`_
* ENH: multifile zip testing
  (thanks to `@thermokarst <https://github.com/thermokarst>`__).
  `Pull Request 7400`_
* Fix genomespace_importer tool
  `Pull Request 7647`_
* Detect errors using exit_code for sort tool
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7679`_
* Fix genomespace exporter tool
  `Pull Request 7697`_
* Only check for exit code on actual sort command
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7699`_
* Commented-out cloudbridge requirement for the cloud/send tool.
  `Pull Request 7727`_
* Add general purpose expression tool
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7796`_
* Fix grouping1 with modern sort, fix test data
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 7844`_

Release Notes
===========================================================

Please see the `full release notes <19.05_announce.html>`_ for more details.

.. include:: 19.05_prs.rst

.. include:: _thanks.rst
