
===========================================================
May 2019 Galaxy Release (v 19.05)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**User Facing Release Notes**
  Galaxy releases now include "user facing" release notes, you are reading
  the traditional release notes which have always been relatively admin and developer
  oriented but will likely be even more so now. Features such as favoriting tools,
  improved workflow editor feedback, and an exciting new cellxgene GIE may have
  been featured in these release notes in the past but are now featured in the
  user release notes instead. A huge thanks to `@hexylena <https://github.com/hexylena>`__
  for getting the ball rolling on this initiative.

  Check out the `19.05 user release notes <https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/release_19.05/releases/19.05_announce_user.html>`__.

**Login and Registration Rewrite**
  The march toward replacing templated backend generated HTML with modern, reactive
  components accelerated in Galaxy 19.05. Galaxy's login, logout, and registration pages
  were replaced with VueJS components. Support for OIDC login options was added and
  certain deprecated OpenID login options were removed. This release contains many other
  client code enhancements including a new client initialization pipeline, ESLint based
  linting, and greatly optimized initial dynamic loading of bundles.

**Improvements to Workflow Expressivity**
  In 19.01, non-data connections were added to the workflow editor in the form of
  explicit, typed, non-data inputs to workflows. This idea has been generalized in 19.05
  and tool can now produce non-data outputs and a new class of tools called "Expression"
  tools has been added to make this especially easy. The Format 2 workflow format is now
  importable by default and admin-only extensions even allow embedding tool definitions
  directly into workflows. Many thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__ for
  pushing this effort.

Get Galaxy
==========

The code lives at `GitHub <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy>`__ and you should have `Git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ to obtain it.

To get a new Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git clone -b release_19.05 https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy.git

To update an existing Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git fetch origin && git checkout release_19.05 && git pull --ff-only origin release_19.05

See the `community hub <https://galaxyproject.org/develop/source-code/>`__ for additional details regarding the source code locations.

Release Notes
===========================================================

.. include:: 19.05.rst
   :start-after: announce_start

.. include:: _thanks.rst
