
===========================================================
January 2019 Galaxy Release (v 19.01)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**Revised UI Style**
  The Galaxy stylesheet has been substantially reworked resulting in the largest visual
  refresh to Galaxy in years.

  `Pull Request 6422`_, `Pull Request 6790`_, `Pull Request 6868`_,
  `Pull Request 6870`_, `Pull Request 6881`_, `Pull Request 6905`_,
  `Pull Request 6910`_, `Pull Request 6967`_, `Pull Request 6985`_,
  `Pull Request 7017`_
  

**More Colorful Tags**
  Use consistently hashed randomized colors for history dataset name tags to increase visual
  distinction between tags, making it easier to track data flow in complex histories.
  Thanks to `@erasche <https://github.com/erasche>`__.
  `Pull Request 7072`_, `Pull Request 7081`_

**Extensive Workflow Enhancements (continued)**
  Galaxy 18.09 featured a bunch of important and diverse fixes and enhancements to workflows on
  both the frontend and backend. That progress continues in release 19.01.

  The workflow editor now features explicit step parameter nodes for non-file data (integers,
  strings, booleans, etc) and the ability to connect these to all tool inputs - not just files
  (`Pull Request 6925`_, `Pull Request 7150`_).
  The YAML-based Galaxy Format 2 workflow language is now included in Galaxy as a beta option
  and allows import and export of human readable workflows (`Pull Request 6776`_, `Pull Request 6807`_, 
  `Pull Request 6811`_, `Pull Request 6746`_) as well as extensions to allow Galaxy
  to serve as a file editor for such workflows (`Pull Request 7019`_). The workflow editor features
  more helpful labels on inputs and outputs (`Pull Request 6770`_) and important fixes including
  logic for connecting collections (`Pull Request 6732`_) and dealing with missing tools
  (`Pull Request 7227`_, `Pull Request 7258`_). The workflow run form now deals with default
  values more correctly (`Pull Request 7157`_).

**Enhanced Support for Singularity**
  `Singularity <https://singularity.lbl.gov/>`__ container support in Galaxy has been brought to
  parity with Docker container support. Specifically, Galaxy can now be configured to fetch
  `Biocontainers <https://biocontainers.pro/>`__ automatically for enabled job destinations.
  Moreover, explicitly annotated Docker containers (either in tools or job destinations) can be used
  with Singularity.
  Thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__.
  `Pull Request 7125`_


Get Galaxy
==========

The code lives at `GitHub <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy>`__ and you should have `Git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ to obtain it.

To get a new Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git clone -b release_19.01 https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy.git

To update an existing Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git fetch origin && git checkout release_19.01 && git pull --ff-only origin release_19.01

See the `community hub <https://galaxyproject.org/develop/source-code/>`__ for additional details regarding the source code locations.

Security
========

Permissions Not Checked to Modify Dataset Metadata
--------------------------------------------------

Jelle Scholtalbers reported an issue where permissions were not being checked when modifying dataset
metadata. This has been resolved with `Pull Request 7322
<https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/7322>`__ and the fix backported through 18.01.

Release Notes
===========================================================

.. include:: 19.01.rst
   :start-after: announce_start

.. include:: _thanks.rst
