
===========================================================
May 2020 Galaxy Release (v 20.05)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**Mass-Spec datatypes**
  @bernt-matthias, can you write a bit about this?

**New Interactive tools**
  @astrovsky01, can you write this ?

**Feature3**
  Any suggestions ? Maybe startup speedup ? New tool test improvements ?


New Visualizations
===========================================================

.. visualizations
* Update charts entrypoint inclusion of dist artifacts
  `Pull Request 9511`_
* Editor as visualization
  (thanks to `@OlegZharkov <https://github.com/OlegZharkov>`__).
  `Pull Request 9531`_
* Chira visualization for Chimeras
  (thanks to `@OlegZharkov <https://github.com/OlegZharkov>`__).
  `Pull Request 9562`_
* Skip visualization build, if no changes were registered
  (thanks to `@OlegZharkov <https://github.com/OlegZharkov>`__).
  `Pull Request 9634`_

New Datatypes
===========================================================

.. datatypes
* new data types for OpenMS
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 8109`_
* Add tpr datatype
  (thanks to `@simonbray <https://github.com/simonbray>`__).
  `Pull Request 9244`_
* Python3 compatible SnpEff and SnpSift metadata detection
  (thanks to `@wm75 <https://github.com/wm75>`__).
  `Pull Request 9282`_
* Add datatypes for xcms and camera
  (thanks to `@computational-metabolomics <https://github.com/computational-metabolomics>`__).
  `Pull Request 9470`_
* index with -c flag for large bam (one region larger than 2**29 - 1)
  (thanks to `@FredericBGA <https://github.com/FredericBGA>`__).
  `Pull Request 9570`_
* Add PAF, GFA1 and odgi datatypes
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 9592`_
* Add xg, vg and protobuf datatypes
  (thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__).
  `Pull Request 9593`_
* Sniffer for multi-member zip archives
  (thanks to `@lecorguille <https://github.com/lecorguille>`__).
  `Pull Request 9595`_
* Fix gff3.gz and gff3.bz2 datatypes
  `Pull Request 9731`_
* Use right extension in bz2_to_uncompressed.xml
  `Pull Request 9734`_
* Fix disappearing datatypes after restart
  `Pull Request 9835`_

Builtin Tool Updates
===========================================================

.. tools
* Tool recommendation
  (thanks to `@anuprulez <https://github.com/anuprulez>`__).
  `Pull Request 9440`_
* Followup to shed tool static fixes
  `Pull Request 9450`_
* Remove deprecated ``interpreter`` attribute from tools ``<command>``
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 9490`_
* Resize D3 tree and make it responsive
  (thanks to `@anuprulez <https://github.com/anuprulez>`__).
  `Pull Request 9547`_
* Datasource tool for SRA manifest
  `Pull Request 9613`_
* Fix ITs to work in remote Kubernetes
  `Pull Request 9614`_
* fix error in bundled tool: shrimp_color_wrapper
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 9665`_
* extract_genomic_dna.py: import Comment, Header from bx.tabular.io instead of bx.intervals.io
  (thanks to `@cat-bro <https://github.com/cat-bro>`__).
  `Pull Request 9748`_

Release Notes
===========================================================

Please see the `full release notes <20.05_announce.html>`_ for more details.

.. include:: 20.05_prs.rst

.. include:: _thanks.rst
