
===========================================================
January 2020 Galaxy Release (v 20.01)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**Feature1**
  Feature description.

**Feature2**
  Feature description.

**Feature3**
  Feature description.


New Visualizations
===========================================================

.. visualizations
* Add data dialog input element to client form parameter list
  `Pull Request 8774`_
* Wrap SQL statement in a text() function as required by sqlalchemy
  (thanks to `@kaukrise <https://github.com/kaukrise>`__).
  `Pull Request 9216`_
* Ensure visible overflow on navbar container
  (thanks to `@kaukrise <https://github.com/kaukrise>`__).
  `Pull Request 9217`_

New Datatypes
===========================================================

.. datatypes
* Datatypes for MassSpec DIA dlib,elib
  (thanks to `@jj-umn <https://github.com/jj-umn>`__).
  `Pull Request 8657`_
* Add bus as binary, remove extra datatype
  (thanks to `@astrovsky01 <https://github.com/astrovsky01>`__).
  `Pull Request 8705`_
* remove dada2_derep data type
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 8902`_
* Add new GROMACS datatypes: ndx, xvg, edr
  (thanks to `@simonbray <https://github.com/simonbray>`__).
  `Pull Request 8964`_
* add gff3.gz and gff3.bz2 datatypes
  (thanks to `@FredericBGA <https://github.com/FredericBGA>`__).
  `Pull Request 8967`_
* Make mol2 visible
  (thanks to `@galaxyproject <https://github.com/galaxyproject>`__).
  `Pull Request 8995`_
* Add a datatype subclass for CAT (Contig Annotation Tool)
  (thanks to `@jj-umn <https://github.com/jj-umn>`__).
  `Pull Request 9087`_
* Fix cool sniffing on python3
  `Pull Request 9153`_

Builtin Tool Updates
===========================================================

.. tools
* Upgrade askomics interactive tool
  (thanks to `@xgaia <https://github.com/xgaia>`__).
  `Pull Request 8517`_
* Remove collection ID character restriction from 'Relabel collection from
  file' tool
  (thanks to `@brinkmanlab <https://github.com/brinkmanlab>`__).
  `Pull Request 8571`_
* Allow space, dot and comma in relabel identifier tool
  `Pull Request 8757`_
* Fix script shebangs
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 8888`_
* grouping: strip newlines
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 8953`_
* Allow admins to import tools/workflows from paths.
  `Pull Request 9003`_
* Add requirements to interval_to_bed_converter.xml
  `Pull Request 9041`_

Release Notes
===========================================================

Please see the `full release notes <20.01_announce.html>`_ for more details.

.. include:: 20.01_prs.rst

.. include:: _thanks.rst
