
===========================================================
September 2020 Galaxy Release (v 20.09)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**Feature1**
  Feature description.

**Feature2**
  Feature description.

**Feature3**
  Feature description.


New Visualizations
===========================================================

.. visualizations
* Add build artifact destination for plugins
  `Pull Request 9754`_
* Hyphyvision visualization dependency fix
  `Pull Request 10011`_
* Add galaxyp MVP visualization plugin
  (thanks to `@tmcgowan <https://github.com/tmcgowan>`__).
  `Pull Request 10136`_

New Datatypes
===========================================================

.. datatypes
* Add VCF_BGZIP to VCF converter
  (thanks to `@almahmoud <https://github.com/almahmoud>`__).
  `Pull Request 7926`_
* Add NcbiTaxonomySQlite class to describe NCBI Taxonomy SQLite databases
  (thanks to `@pvanheus <https://github.com/pvanheus>`__).
  `Pull Request 9712`_
* Add lastdb datatype for last tool (PR `#2749 <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/issues/2749>`__)
  (thanks to `@RomainDallet <https://github.com/RomainDallet>`__).
  `Pull Request 9872`_
* Add BLASTDBv5 datatype (for blast >=2.8.1)
  (thanks to `@abretaud <https://github.com/abretaud>`__).
  `Pull Request 9939`_
* Use compression_utils to safely peek in compressed datasets
  (thanks to `@pvanheus <https://github.com/pvanheus>`__).
  `Pull Request 9990`_
* Add Anndata peek capability
  (thanks to `@mtekman <https://github.com/mtekman>`__).
  `Pull Request 10013`_
* fix OSError in fastq_to_fqtoc converter
  (thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__).
  `Pull Request 10042`_
* Don't display download link for optional, non-existant metadata files
  `Pull Request 10068`_
* Add "tgz" datatype to config sample file for toolfactory and any other tools generating gzipped tar files
  (thanks to `@fubar2 <https://github.com/fubar2>`__).
  `Pull Request 10080`_
* Fix determining 'int', 'float' column type in Tabular
  (thanks to `@selten <https://github.com/selten>`__).
  `Pull Request 10155`_
* Decrease pysam verbosity
  `Pull Request 10225`_
* Remove references to missing types from sample config file
  `Pull Request 10269`_
* Fix tuple assignment (fixes anndata, scanpy tool tests)
  `Pull Request 10293`_

Builtin Tool Updates
===========================================================

.. tools
* Allow submission of tools with unset hidden parameters
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 9656`_
* Citations overhaul
  `Pull Request 9757`_
* Fix error in get_open_tempfile()
  `Pull Request 10060`_
* Backport bugfix in `#10060 <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/issues/10060>`__ to 20.05
  `Pull Request 10138`_
* Fix and simplify built-in trim tool
  (thanks to `@wm75 <https://github.com/wm75>`__).
  `Pull Request 10145`_
* Allow unary plus and minus in filtering
  (thanks to `@wm75 <https://github.com/wm75>`__).
  `Pull Request 10154`_
* Toolbox refactoring, styling, and a couple bugfixes
  `Pull Request 10170`_
* Filtering.py failing all expressions
  (thanks to `@almahmoud <https://github.com/almahmoud>`__).
  `Pull Request 10266`_

Release Notes
===========================================================

Please see the `full release notes <20.09_announce.html>`_ for more details.

.. include:: 20.09_prs.rst

.. include:: _thanks.rst
