
===========================================================
September 2020 Galaxy Release (v 20.09)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**Plugin framework for uploading datasets**
  Galaxy administrators can now configure different sources
  from which users may upload files. These include global or
  user-specifc webdav servers, dropbox accounts as well as
  FTP and regular filesystem locations. Developers can add
  new types of sources by adding `PyFileSystem2 <https://docs.pyfilesystem.org/en/latest/introduction.html>`__ compatible
  plugins. (`Pull Request 9888`_)

**Workflow import from GA4GH TRS servers**
  Galaxy can now search and import workflows from GA4GH TRS servers,
  such as `Dockstore <https://dockstore.org/>`__ and `WorkflowHub <https://workflowhub.eu/>`__.
  We hope that sharing workflows on these platforms will facilitate re-use and collaboration.
  (`Pull Request 9999`_, `Pull Request 10158`_)

**Simplified workflow submission form**
  Galaxy now presents a simpler and cleaner interface for submitting workflows
  that focuses on the parameters to set and datasets to choose.
  (`Pull Request 9151`_).

**Accelerate batch job creation and workflow step scheduling**
  Galaxy now batches database interactions for the creation of batch jobs.
  For large batches of jobs this can speed up job creation by 100 fold or more.
  (`Pull Request 9926`_, `Pull Request 9980`_, `Pull Request 9985`_, `Pull Request 10008`_, `Pull Request 10019`_)

Also check out the `20.09 user release notes <20.09_announce_user.html>`__

Configuration Changes
=====================

The following configuration options have been changed

**config/tool_shed.yml.sample:**

-  uwsgi.static-safe has changed from ``client/galaxy/images`` to ``client/src/assets``

**config/galaxy.yml.sample:**

-  uwsgi.static-safe has changed from ``client/galaxy/images`` to ``client/src/assets``

**config/reports.yml.sample:**

-  uwsgi.static-safe has changed from ``client/galaxy/images`` to ``client/src/assets``

New Configuration Files
-----------------------

The following configuration file is new:

-  ``config/trs_servers_conf.yml.sample``


Get Galaxy
==========

The code lives at `GitHub <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy>`__ and you should have `Git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ to obtain it.

To get a new Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git clone -b release_20.09 https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy.git

To update an existing Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git fetch origin && git checkout release_20.09 && git pull --ff-only origin release_20.09

See the `community hub <https://galaxyproject.org/develop/source-code/>`__ for additional details regarding the source code locations.

Release Testing Team
===========================================================

A special thanks to the release testing team for testing many of the new features and reporting many bugs:

- `Jayadev Joshi <https://github.com/jaidevjoshi83>`_
- `Luke Sargent <https://github.com/luke-c-sargent>`_
- `Marius van den Beek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`_
- `John Davis <https://github.com/jdavcs>`_

Release Notes
===========================================================

.. include:: 20.09.rst
   :start-after: announce_start

.. include:: _thanks.rst
