
===========================================================
January 2020 Galaxy Release (v 20.01)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**Enhanced workflow functionality**
  Workflows can now make use of optional datasets and optional parameters,
  optional parameter default values and dataset inputs can now be restricted to
  user-defined datatypes. The workflow editor and execution engine have been
  enhanced to allow defining options to choose from, and these options can be
  connected to compatible text, integer, float, color and select tool parameters
  for more flexible and universally re-usable workflows (`Pull Request 9086`_).

**Major update to container and dependency management interface**
  The manage dependencies interface has been ported to vue.js and displays
  additional information about installed, missing and available dependencies
  and conveniently summarizes dependency status for all installed tools.
  Additionally the user interface now displays whether a `Biocontainers <https://biocontainers.pro/#/registry>`__ image
  is available at `quay.io <https://quay.io>`__ (`Pull Request 8741`_).

**Extended job metadata collection**
  Creating Job metadata has been reworked so that the dataset transfer that
  occurs after a Galaxy job can be initiated by the compute node that runs a
  Galaxy job. Previously the transfer was often done by Galaxy. Offloading this
  task to the compute node should allow handling many more jobs in parallel. This
  work will also make jobs running on remote compute resources much more
  efficient if the remote resources can write to Galaxy's object store. To
  benefit from this new metadata setting Galaxy needs to use object stores that
  use uuids for storing datasets and set the ``metadata_strategy`` configuration
  value to ``extended``. This feature is in beta testing, but work is ongoing to
  mix existing object store configuration and choose the most efficient way of
  transfering datasets automatically (`Pull Request 8930`_ ).


Also check out the `20.01 user release notes <https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/release_20.01/releases/20.01_announce_user.html>`__

Get Galaxy
==========

The code lives at `GitHub <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy>`__ and you should have `Git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ to obtain it.

To get a new Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git clone -b release_20.01 https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy.git

To update an existing Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git fetch origin && git checkout release_20.01 && git pull --ff-only origin release_20.01

See the `community hub <https://galaxyproject.org/develop/source-code/>`__ for additional details regarding the source code locations.

Updates to Tools and Converters in the Galaxy distribution
==========================================================

Many tools and Converters have been updated in the 20.01 release.
As a consequence deployers need to install dependencies for these in the
Admin Menu -> Manage Dependencies.

Deprecation Notice
==================

With the release of Galaxy 20.01 we strongly encourage all deployers to run Galaxy under Python 3.
For instructions on how to transition to Python 3 please see `here <https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/release_20.01/admin/python.html>`__.


Release Notes
===========================================================

.. include:: 20.01.rst
   :start-after: announce_start

.. include:: _thanks.rst
