
===========================================================
May 2021 Galaxy Release (v 21.05)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**Feature1**
  Feature description.

**Feature2**
  Feature description.

**Feature3**
  Feature description.


New Visualizations
===========================================================

.. visualizations
* Migrate api/genomes to fastapi
  `Pull Request 11241`_
* Shared visualization display fix
  `Pull Request 11906`_

New Datatypes
===========================================================

.. datatypes
* Add FlowCytometry and MetaCyto datatypes
  (thanks to `@pcm32 <https://github.com/pcm32>`__).
  `Pull Request 9807`_
* Add FastAPI routes for datatypes
  (thanks to `@davelopez <https://github.com/davelopez>`__).
  `Pull Request 11098`_
* Fix remaining issues reported by bugbear; add it to flake8 reqs
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 11153`_
* Add mrc datatype (and Python dependency)
  (thanks to `@gregvonkuster <https://github.com/gregvonkuster>`__).
  `Pull Request 11220`_
* remove duplicated qcml from datatypes_conf sample
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 11378`_
* Refactor display_applications API logic into DisplayApplicationsManager
  (thanks to `@davelopez <https://github.com/davelopez>`__).
  `Pull Request 11386`_
* Merge release_21.01 -> dev
  `Pull Request 11394`_
* Add HHR datatype
  (thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__).
  `Pull Request 11661`_
* add meryldb datatype
  (thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__).
  `Pull Request 11694`_
* Merge 20.09 into dev
  `Pull Request 11711`_
* Add datatype for PretextMap output
  `Pull Request 11747`_
* add new datatype class for meryldb
  (thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__).
  `Pull Request 11758`_
* Make Avivator GEDA and sniffer for ome.tiff datatype
  (thanks to `@qiagu <https://github.com/qiagu>`__).
  `Pull Request 11801`_
* jellyfish db datatype
  (thanks to `@astrovsky01 <https://github.com/astrovsky01>`__).
  `Pull Request 11802`_
* add new datatype JPEG 2000 in Galaxy
  (thanks to `@annefou <https://github.com/annefou>`__).
  `Pull Request 11812`_
* Make datatype h5_model for machine leaning models
  (thanks to `@qiagu <https://github.com/qiagu>`__).
  `Pull Request 11825`_
* Add support for the Relion STAR data format
  (thanks to `@gregvonkuster <https://github.com/gregvonkuster>`__).
  `Pull Request 11831`_
* add minerva display app for covid
  (thanks to `@hexylena <https://github.com/hexylena>`__).
  `Pull Request 11880`_
* Limit max column in tabular dataset preview
  `Pull Request 11901`_
* Add toml datatype
  (thanks to `@jj-umn <https://github.com/jj-umn>`__).
  `Pull Request 11909`_
* Use keep_original in pysam.tabix_index to not remove original data
  `Pull Request 11913`_

Builtin Tool Updates
===========================================================

.. tools
* Fix remaining issues reported by bugbear; add it to flake8 reqs
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 11153`_
* Resolve session problems, enabled pages and tags fastAPI routes
  `Pull Request 11342`_
* Make filter work with file containing header
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 11365`_
* Add the SimText shiny app as Interactive Tool
  (thanks to `@dlal-group <https://github.com/dlal-group>`__).
  `Pull Request 11680`_
* grep, tail, head: add option to keep header
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 11859`_
* add a bit of docs to the add tags tool
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 11874`_

Release Testing Team
===========================================================

A special thanks to the release testing team for testing many of the new features and reporting many bugs:

<team members go here>

Release Notes
===========================================================

Please see the `full release notes <21.05_announce.html>`_ for more details.

.. include:: 21.05_prs.rst

.. include:: _thanks.rst
