
===========================================================
January 2021 Galaxy Release (v 21.01)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

* Galaxy Markdown enhancements including integration of visualizations - allow embedding
  visualizations in Galaxy Markdown (workflow invocation reports and pages) with
  Markdown editor support and allow exporting workflow reports directly to Galaxy Pages.
  `Pull Request 10241`_, `Pull Request 10288`_, `Pull Request 10404`_

* History panel rewrite (available in the UI as a beta option).
  `Pull Request 8441`_, `Pull Request 11071`_, `Pull Request 10971`_

* Allow organizing the panel via EDAM ontology annotations.
  (thanks to `@hexylena <https://github.com/hexylena>`__).
  `Pull Request 10592`_

* Large overhaul over history import and export - including improved user experience, APIs, and allowing importing and exporting
  to file sources plugins (including FTP).
  `Pull Request 11054`_, `Pull Request 10993`_

* Various substantial improvements to data library user interface and performance
  (thanks to `@OlegZharkov <https://github.com/OlegZharkov>`__).
  `Pull Request 10204`_, `Pull Request 11099`_,
  `Pull Request 10557`_, `Pull Request 10558`_,
  `Pull Request 10807`_

* UI & API for Supporting Best Practice Workflows
  `Pull Request 10988`_, `Pull Request 11025`_
* Add author and license metadata and corresponding web microdata annotations for tools
  and workflows.
  `Pull Request 10408`_

* Implement edit & upgrade subworkflow buttons in workflow editor.
  `Pull Request 11032`_

* Allow the "Apply Rules" tool to attach tags to output datasets.
  `Pull Request 10382`_

* Add S3 plugin for remote files browser.
  `Pull Request 10523`_

* Support stopping Interactive Tools without deleting their outputs
  `Pull Request 10497`_

* Allow InteractiveTools to use path-based proxying when ``requires_domain=False``.
  `Pull Request 8596`_

* Auto-focus upload name in upload dialog.
  `Pull Request 10487`_

* Add update time to workflow version selector in workflow editor.
  `Pull Request 10492`_

* Use dataset selector in rules input dialog.
  `Pull Request 10505`_

* Make primary extract workflow action button more visible
  (thanks to `@hexylena <https://github.com/hexylena>`__).
  `Pull Request 10583`_

* Revision of sharing component, adds url copy to clipboard feature
  `Pull Request 10754`_

* Persist scroll/url information for GTN webhook
  (thanks to `@hexylena <https://github.com/hexylena>`__).
  `Pull Request 11290`_



New Visualizations
===========================================================

.. visualizations
* Integrate NORA's image viewer - a medical image viewer and annotation tool.
  (thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__).
  `Pull Request 11035`_
* Add the OpenSeadragon viewer for deep zoom images
  (thanks to `@gregvonkuster <https://github.com/gregvonkuster>`__).
  `Pull Request 10756`_

New Datatypes
===========================================================

.. datatypes
* initial commit for gfa2
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 10270`_
* add ome.tiff datatype
  (thanks to `@qiagu <https://github.com/qiagu>`__).
  `Pull Request 10349`_
* Add support for the dzi (Deep Zoom Image) data format
  (thanks to `@gregvonkuster <https://github.com/gregvonkuster>`__).
  `Pull Request 10546`_
* Add datatype converters for various MD filetypes
  (thanks to `@simonbray <https://github.com/simonbray>`__).
  `Pull Request 10757`_
* Add nifti1 and nifti2 datatype
  (thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__).
  `Pull Request 11020`_
* add tck and trk datatype
  (thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__).
  `Pull Request 11021`_
* add gifti fileformat
  (thanks to `@bgruening <https://github.com/bgruening>`__).
  `Pull Request 11028`_
* add basic Apache Parquet datatype
  `Pull Request 11047`_
* Add minimal `msf` datatype
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 11084`_

Builtin Tool Updates
===========================================================

.. tools
* Allow the Apply Rules tool to attach tags to output datasets.
  `Pull Request 10382`_
* allow empty file uploads
  (thanks to `@galaxyproject <https://github.com/galaxyproject>`__).
  `Pull Request 11079`_

Release Notes
===========================================================

Please see the `full release notes <21.01_announce.html>`_ for more details.

.. include:: 21.01_prs.rst

.. include:: _thanks.rst
