
===========================================================
September 2021 Galaxy Release (v 21.09)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

Please note that the release is still being tested and finalized, and that these
are pre-release notes.

Check back here for the official and comprehensive notes soon!

**Feature1**
  Feature description.

**Feature2**
  Feature description.

**Feature3**
  Feature description.


New Visualizations
===========================================================

.. visualizations

New Datatypes
===========================================================

.. datatypes
* Convert/standardize to fstrings across `lib`
  `Pull Request 11338`_
* Added documentation for FASTQ datatypes and implemented quality check
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 11931`_
* Make dataset preview for h5mlm datatype
  (thanks to `@qiagu <https://github.com/qiagu>`__).
  `Pull Request 11935`_
* Add datatypes for Structural Materials Hexrd application
  (thanks to `@jj-umn <https://github.com/jj-umn>`__).
  `Pull Request 11957`_
* Adding new subclass types
  (thanks to `@maikenp <https://github.com/maikenp>`__).
  `Pull Request 12097`_
* Converters: use target datatype
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 12185`_
* Add bref3 datatype
  (thanks to `@gallardoalba <https://github.com/gallardoalba>`__).
  `Pull Request 12199`_
* Converters: add missing tests and add linting to converter tests
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 12202`_
* Converters: Unify converters to tabix and bgzip
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 12213`_
* Converters: Unify molecules converters
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 12214`_
* Converters: Unify dcd, trr, xtc
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 12224`_
* converters: Unify bcf converters
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 12225`_
* Fix edta metadata setting
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 12273`_
* mothur datatype: PairwiseDistanceMatrix sniffer may be too unspecific
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 12280`_
* Add "ExpressionSet RData object" Datatype
  (thanks to `@mtekman <https://github.com/mtekman>`__).
  `Pull Request 12336`_
* Small fix in binary.py
  (thanks to `@melibleq <https://github.com/melibleq>`__).
  `Pull Request 12384`_
* also parse sam metadata from sam files
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 12392`_
* Add ONNX datatype
  (thanks to `@anuprulez <https://github.com/anuprulez>`__).
  `Pull Request 12429`_
* Drop bcftools requirement from set_metadata tool
  `Pull Request 12472`_
* Fix cmap sniffer
  (thanks to `@astrovsky01 <https://github.com/astrovsky01>`__).
  `Pull Request 12509`_

Builtin Tool Updates
===========================================================

.. tools
* Changes to Collection Operation Help sections and parameter names
  `Pull Request 11068`_
* GPU enabled jupyter notebook for machine learning powered by Jupyter lab and Tensorflow
  (thanks to `@anuprulez <https://github.com/anuprulez>`__).
  `Pull Request 11484`_
* Update bam.iobio interactive tool wrapper
  (thanks to `@luke-c-sargent <https://github.com/luke-c-sargent>`__).
  `Pull Request 11537`_
* Add tool for exporting individual files to galaxy file source plugins.
  `Pull Request 11613`_
* NCBI Datasets data source tool
  `Pull Request 11738`_
* Fix typo in `interactivetool_jupyter_notebook.xml` help section
  (thanks to `@maximskorik <https://github.com/maximskorik>`__).
  `Pull Request 12077`_
* Update interactivetool_pyiron.xml
  (thanks to `@gmauro <https://github.com/gmauro>`__).
  `Pull Request 12127`_
* Update AskOmics interactive tool to 4.3.1
  (thanks to `@abretaud <https://github.com/abretaud>`__).
  `Pull Request 12159`_
* Fix patterns in Grep1 tool
  `Pull Request 12166`_
* Remove unused legacy controller things
  `Pull Request 12172`_
* add <creator> to the tool schema template, use live links in xsd
  `Pull Request 12242`_
* Systematic handling of remotely required tool files.
  `Pull Request 12250`_
* Restore Grep1 version 1.0.1
  `Pull Request 12252`_
* Vuefy and improve granularity for tool HTML sanitization
  `Pull Request 12283`_
* Allow bio.tools mappings for legacy tools.
  `Pull Request 12289`_
* Allow skipping sanitization of / char in export_remote tool
  `Pull Request 12372`_
* Lock location file before adding values
  `Pull Request 12446`_

Release Testing Team
===========================================================

A special thanks to the release testing team for testing many of the new features and reporting many bugs:

<team members go here>

Release Notes
===========================================================

Please see the `full release notes <21.09_announce.html>`_ for more details.

.. include:: 21.09_prs.rst

.. include:: _thanks.rst
