
===========================================================
May 2022 Galaxy Release (v 22.05)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**Feature1**
  Feature description.

**Feature2**
  Feature description.

**Feature3**
  Feature description.


New Visualizations
===========================================================

.. visualizations
* Add gulp target for force-rebuild of viz plugins
  (thanks to `@dannon <https://github.com/dannon>`__).
  `Pull Request 13370`_
* Properly initialize chart settings for new visualizations
  (thanks to `@guerler <https://github.com/guerler>`__).
  `Pull Request 13561`_
* Point to GTN tutorial in visualizations readme
  (thanks to `@beatrizserrano <https://github.com/beatrizserrano>`__).
  `Pull Request 13616`_
* Add 3D PCA visualization
  (thanks to `@xtrojak <https://github.com/xtrojak>`__).
  `Pull Request 13771`_
* Support phylocanvas autobuild
  (thanks to `@dannon <https://github.com/dannon>`__).
  `Pull Request 14023`_
* Fix a bug in PCA artifact staging that prevents a plugin rebuild.
  (thanks to `@dannon <https://github.com/dannon>`__).
  `Pull Request 14148`_

New Datatypes
===========================================================

.. datatypes
* Python code formatting standard, automatic.
  (thanks to `@dannon <https://github.com/dannon>`__).
  `Pull Request 11162`_
* Add new molecule datatypes
  (thanks to `@muon-spectroscopy-computational-project <https://github.com/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project>`__).
  `Pull Request 12375`_
* Upgrade syntax to Python 3.7
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 13500`_
* add mzqc datatype
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 13564`_
* Update mypy to 0.942 . Fix new mypy errors.
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 13650`_
* Create data_fetch and set_metadata celery tasks
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 13655`_
* Add bigWig to Wig converter
  (thanks to `@gallardoalba <https://github.com/gallardoalba>`__).
  `Pull Request 13708`_
* Replace last use of deprecated ``imp`` module
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 13817`_
* Add support for gz-compressed gfa1 and gfa2 files
  (thanks to `@gallardoalba <https://github.com/gallardoalba>`__).
  `Pull Request 13927`_
* Tighten sniffers
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 13959`_
* Don't create a BGZF index when running the compressing converter
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 13969`_
* Fix bug: set creation_date on dataset.metadata, not dataset
  (thanks to `@jdavcs <https://github.com/jdavcs>`__).
  `Pull Request 14039`_
* Fix composite datatypes with ``substitute_name_with_metadata``
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 14053`_
* Enable generating urls for WSGI routes within FastAPI routes
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 14066`_
* Fix collection download for bam native files
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 14162`_

Builtin Tool Updates
===========================================================

.. tools
* Python code formatting standard, automatic.
  (thanks to `@dannon <https://github.com/dannon>`__).
  `Pull Request 11162`_
* Add built-in converters to tool panel
  (thanks to `@jdavcs <https://github.com/jdavcs>`__).
  `Pull Request 13447`_
* Add JupyTool, user-configurable interactive Jupyter-based tool.
  (thanks to `@blankenberg <https://github.com/blankenberg>`__).
  `Pull Request 13606`_
* Fix David URL
  (thanks to `@hexylena <https://github.com/hexylena>`__).
  `Pull Request 13666`_
* IT updates from EU
  (thanks to `@gmauro <https://github.com/gmauro>`__).
  `Pull Request 13811`_
* Bump ncb-datasets-cli dependency to 13.14.0
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 13853`_

Release Testing Team
===========================================================

A special thanks to the release testing team for testing many of the new features and reporting many bugs:

<team members go here>

Release Notes
===========================================================

Please see the `full release notes <22.05_announce.html>`_ for more details.

.. include:: 22.05_prs.rst

.. include:: _thanks.rst
