
===========================================================
 2023 Galaxy Release (v 23.0)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**Feature1**
  Feature description.

**Feature2**
  Feature description.

**Feature3**
  Feature description.


New Visualizations
===========================================================

.. visualizations
* Fix path for history contents API request
  (thanks to `@reid-wagner <https://github.com/reid-wagner>`__).
  `Pull Request 14437`_
* visjs-based transition system visualization
  (thanks to `@xtrojak <https://github.com/xtrojak>`__).
  `Pull Request 14766`_
* Fix ``x-accel-redirect`` handling and implement byte-range handling
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 14990`_
* Prepend Galaxy root to dataset download URLs in visualization plugins
  (thanks to `@mahendrapaipuri <https://github.com/mahendrapaipuri>`__).
  `Pull Request 15064`_
* Visualization mounting fix & test
  (thanks to `@dannon <https://github.com/dannon>`__).
  `Pull Request 15332`_

New Datatypes
===========================================================

.. datatypes
* Replace pysam in converters by command line tools
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 13411`_
* Combine "as" imports with other "from" imports
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 14119`_
* save one call to datatype_by_extension
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 14209`_
* Code cleanups from pyupgrade
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 14313`_
* Add datatypes for Sybila tools
  (thanks to `@xtrojak <https://github.com/xtrojak>`__).
  `Pull Request 14362`_
* Add "Datatypes" Page
  (thanks to `@ElectronicBlueberry <https://github.com/ElectronicBlueberry>`__).
  `Pull Request 14464`_
* Add CASTEP datatypes
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 14504`_
* Remove legacy tool shed datatype handling
  (thanks to `@jmchilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>`__).
  `Pull Request 14617`_
* do not split "." but the path
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 14760`_
* Add support for the PSL data format
  (thanks to `@gregvonkuster <https://github.com/gregvonkuster>`__).
  `Pull Request 14813`_
* Misc. fixes to datatypes modules
  (thanks to `@jdavcs <https://github.com/jdavcs>`__).
  `Pull Request 14817`_
* Add ludwig report datatype
  (thanks to `@qiagu <https://github.com/qiagu>`__).
  `Pull Request 14903`_
* Fix indentation level on SnpSiftDbNSFP.set_peek()
  (thanks to `@jdavcs <https://github.com/jdavcs>`__).
  `Pull Request 14953`_
* Display model diagram for h5mlm datatype
  (thanks to `@qiagu <https://github.com/qiagu>`__).
  `Pull Request 14992`_
* Refactor, add type hints to get_chunk() in datatypes
  (thanks to `@jdavcs <https://github.com/jdavcs>`__).
  `Pull Request 14993`_
* Enable Tabix download + New datatype JuicerMediumTabix in 22.05
  (thanks to `@lldelisle <https://github.com/lldelisle>`__).
  `Pull Request 15024`_
* Type hints for datatypes
  (thanks to `@jdavcs <https://github.com/jdavcs>`__).
  `Pull Request 15052`_
* fix interval_to_bgzip for sub gff classes
  (thanks to `@lldelisle <https://github.com/lldelisle>`__).
  `Pull Request 15053`_
* Add wiff2 composite/tar datatypes
  (thanks to `@neoformit <https://github.com/neoformit>`__).
  `Pull Request 15249`_
* Add linting with ruff
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 15315`_
* Add ecology type section + hdr and bil datatypes
  (thanks to `@yvanlebras <https://github.com/yvanlebras>`__).
  `Pull Request 15337`_
* add xsd datatype
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 15344`_

Builtin Tool Updates
===========================================================

.. tools
* Support empty compressed dataset in  filter_empty_datasets tool
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 14360`_
* Feature: Advanced Tool Search Menu
  (thanks to `@ahmedhamidawan <https://github.com/ahmedhamidawan>`__).
  `Pull Request 14391`_
* interval2maf remove from unversioned or deprecate
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 14573`_
* Unit tests and type fixes for tool data tables code
  (thanks to `@jmchilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>`__).
  `Pull Request 14582`_
* Misc fixes 202209
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 14592`_
* Type annotations for base toolbox functionality.
  (thanks to `@jmchilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>`__).
  `Pull Request 14629`_
* Simplify head wrapper - same functionality, no pipe
  (thanks to `@wm75 <https://github.com/wm75>`__).
  `Pull Request 14895`_
* Update interactivetool_ml_jupyter_notebook.xml
  (thanks to `@anuprulez <https://github.com/anuprulez>`__).
  `Pull Request 14910`_
* Add interactive tool for Mgnify Jupyter lab
  (thanks to `@bebatut <https://github.com/bebatut>`__).
  `Pull Request 14950`_
*  Add interactive tool for Pavian
  (thanks to `@bebatut <https://github.com/bebatut>`__).
  `Pull Request 15068`_
* Fix add value tool, bump linter level for ``format="input"`` to error
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 15304`_
* Add linting with ruff
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 15315`_

Release Testing Team
===========================================================

A special thanks to the release testing team for testing many of the new features and reporting many bugs:

Alireza Heidari <https://github.com/itisAliRH>
Bryan Raubenolt <https://github.com/thepineapplepirate>
Cameron Hyde <https://github.com/neoformit>
Jennifer Hillman-Jackson <https://github.com/jennaj>
John Chilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>
John Davis <https://github.com/jdavcs>
Laila Los <https://github.com/ElectronicBlueberry>

Release Notes
===========================================================

Please see the :doc:`full release notes <23.0_announce>` for more details.

.. include:: 23.0_prs.rst

.. include:: _thanks.rst
