
===========================================================
23.0 Galaxy Release (April 2023)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

This release includes significant user interface changes enhancing accessibility
and usability.  This includes a new tool search, modernized multi-history view,
new tag displays, theme support, and better drag and drop handling across the
application.  There are also brand new 'Datatypes' and 'About This Galaxy'
interfaces.  Interactive Tools are more seamlessly integrated into the user
interface and Galaxy also comes with a new MGnify Notebook IT. The workflow
editor has been completely overhauled with significant improvements to usability
and extensibility, including new conditional workflow step functionality.

Check out the `23.0 user release notes <23.0_announce_user.html>`__ for all the
details. Are you an admin? See the Administration Notes below, and check out
`some admin relevant PRs
<https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pulls?q=label%3Ahighlight%2Fadmin+milestone%3A23.0+is%3Aclosed++is%3Apr+>`__.

Get Galaxy
==========

The code lives at `GitHub <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy>`__ and you should have `Git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ to obtain it.

To get a new Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git clone -b release_23.0 https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy.git

To update an existing Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git fetch origin && git checkout release_23.0 && git pull --ff-only origin release_23.0

See the `community hub <https://galaxyproject.org/develop/source-code/>`__ for additional details on source code locations.

Administration Notes
====================

Dependencies for various built-in converter tools have been changed from pysam
to samtools. Please make sure you install these dependencies through the admin
panel or manually.  See more details `on the PR here
<https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/13411>`__.

Configuration default values are no longer read from the sample files -- they
now come directly from the config schema.  If you are relying on local changes
to sample files, be aware that you will need to adjust your configuration.  See
more details on configuration changes `on the PR here
<https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/14755>`__.

Configuration Changes
=====================

Added
-----

The following configuration options are new

config/galaxy.yml.sample
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  gravity

config/galaxy.yml.sample:galaxy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  mapping.tool_shed.mapping.bootstrap_admin_api_key
-  mapping.tool_shed.mapping.sentry_traces_sample_rate


Changed
-------

The following configuration options have been changed

config/galaxy.yml.sample:galaxy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


-  mapping.galaxy.mapping.job_config_file.default has changed from

   ::

    job_conf.xml

   to

   ::

    job_conf.yml



-  mapping.galaxy.mapping.logo_src.default has changed from

   ::

    /static/favicon.png

   to

   ::

    /static/favicon.svg



-  mapping.galaxy.mapping.tool_recommendation_model_path.default has changed from

   ::

    https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy-test-data/raw/master/tool_recommendation_model.hdf5

   to

   ::

    https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy-test-data/raw/master/tool_recommendation_model_v_0.2.hdf5


-  mapping.galaxy.mapping.topk_recommendations.default has changed from

   ::

    10

   to

   ::

    20




Removed
-------

The following configuration options have been completely removed

config/galaxy.yml.sample:galaxy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  mapping.reports.mapping.debug
-  mapping.reports.mapping.use_lint
-  mapping.reports.mapping.use_profile


New Configuration Files
-----------------------

The following files are new, or recently converted to yaml

-  ``config/themes_conf.yml.sample``


Deprecation Notices
===========================================================

Trackster is deprecated and will be removed in the next release.  This functionality will be provided by other visualization plugins (IGV.js, JBrowse).

Workflow exports to myexperiment.org are deprecated and will be removed in the next release.

Release Notes
===========================================================

.. include:: 23.0.rst
   :start-after: announce_start

.. include:: _thanks.rst
