
===========================================================
June 2023 Galaxy Release (v 23.1)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**Feature1**
  Feature description.

**Feature2**
  Feature description.

**Feature3**
  Feature description.


New Visualizations
===========================================================

.. visualizations
* Add support for visualizing HDF5 datasets
  (thanks to `@jarrah42 <https://github.com/jarrah42>`__).
  `Pull Request 15394`_
* Phylocanvas rebuild
  (thanks to `@dannon <https://github.com/dannon>`__).
  `Pull Request 15521`_
* Gitignore update
  (thanks to `@ElectronicBlueberry <https://github.com/ElectronicBlueberry>`__).
  `Pull Request 16046`_
* Fixes the parcel2 build for hdf5 viz when using node18.
  (thanks to `@dannon <https://github.com/dannon>`__).
  `Pull Request 16047`_
* FITS file visualization plugin
  (thanks to `@francoismg <https://github.com/francoismg>`__).
  `Pull Request 16187`_
* Small test decorator improvements
  (thanks to `@jmchilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>`__).
  `Pull Request 16220`_

New Datatypes
===========================================================

.. datatypes
* Fix bad auto-merge of dev
  (thanks to `@jmchilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>`__).
  `Pull Request 15386`_
* Follow up to `#15186 <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/issues/15186>`__
  (thanks to `@jdavcs <https://github.com/jdavcs>`__).
  `Pull Request 15388`_
* Add support for visualizing HDF5 datasets
  (thanks to `@jarrah42 <https://github.com/jarrah42>`__).
  `Pull Request 15394`_
* Merge 23.0 into dev
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 15594`_
* Enable ``strict_equality`` mypy option
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 15808`_
* FITS data format
  (thanks to `@volodymyrss <https://github.com/volodymyrss>`__).
  `Pull Request 15905`_
* Improve display chunk generation for BAMs
  (thanks to `@wm75 <https://github.com/wm75>`__).
  `Pull Request 15972`_
* Code cleanups from ruff and pyupgrade
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 16035`_
* Dataset chunking tests (and small fixes)
  (thanks to `@jmchilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>`__).
  `Pull Request 16069`_
* Merge release_23.0 into dev
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 16088`_
* Improve robustness of collection edit E2E test
  (thanks to `@jmchilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>`__).
  `Pull Request 16092`_
* Add hdf4 datatype
  (thanks to `@TheoMathurin <https://github.com/TheoMathurin>`__).
  `Pull Request 16105`_
* Fix linting of FITS datatype code
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 16169`_
* Add zipped mongodb and genenotebook datatypes
  (thanks to `@abretaud <https://github.com/abretaud>`__).
  `Pull Request 16173`_
* Add Visium datatype for squidpy and spatialomics tools
  (thanks to `@astrovsky01 <https://github.com/astrovsky01>`__).
  `Pull Request 16255`_

Builtin Tool Updates
===========================================================

.. tools
* Deprecate tools/evolution
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 15656`_
* Allow pending inputs in some collection operation tools
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 15892`_
* Updates MGnify interactive tool to v1.1.0
  (thanks to `@SandyRogers <https://github.com/SandyRogers>`__).
  `Pull Request 16179`_
* Remove various fallback behaviors
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 16199`_

Release Testing Team
===========================================================

A special thanks to the release testing team for testing many of the new features and reporting many bugs:

<team members go here>

Release Notes
===========================================================

Please see the :doc:`full release notes <23.1_announce>` for more details.

.. include:: 23.1_prs.rst

.. include:: _thanks.rst
