
===========================================================
Late 2023 Galaxy Release (v 23.2)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

Feature1
--------

Feature description.

Feature2
--------

Feature description.

Feature3
--------

Feature description.


Datatypes
===========================================================

.. datatypes
* Implement display function for all datatypes
  (thanks to `@SergeyYakubov <https://github.com/SergeyYakubov>`__).
  `Pull Request 15447`_
* Add stl datatype
  (thanks to `@TanguyGen <https://github.com/TanguyGen>`__).
  `Pull Request 16478`_
* Add new cns, cnr and cnn datatypes (cnvkit tools)
  (thanks to `@khaled196 <https://github.com/khaled196>`__).
  `Pull Request 16503`_
* Support new genome browser chain file format
  (thanks to `@claudiofr <https://github.com/claudiofr>`__).
  `Pull Request 16576`_
* Bump samtools converters
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 16668`_
* Add docx datatype
  (thanks to `@yvanlebras <https://github.com/yvanlebras>`__).
  `Pull Request 16713`_
* MINERVA display application: enable cors, add for tabular datasets
  (thanks to `@hexylena <https://github.com/hexylena>`__).
  `Pull Request 16737`_
* Prep for updated h5py
  (thanks to `@mr-c <https://github.com/mr-c>`__).
  `Pull Request 16963`_
* Update tar_to_directory dependency
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 17009`_
* Optimize object store cache operations
  (thanks to `@SergeyYakubov <https://github.com/SergeyYakubov>`__).
  `Pull Request 17025`_
* Add support for larch datatypes
  (thanks to `@patrick-austin <https://github.com/patrick-austin>`__).
  `Pull Request 17080`_
* Fix Display Application link generation
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 17227`_
* Display application fixes and tests
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 17233`_

Builtin Tool Updates
===========================================================

.. tools
* Update cellxgene interactive tool to 1.1.1
  (thanks to `@pcm32 <https://github.com/pcm32>`__).
  `Pull Request 15313`_
* Update interactivetool_mgnify_notebook to v1.2.2
  (thanks to `@SandyRogers <https://github.com/SandyRogers>`__).
  `Pull Request 16517`_
* Refactor Tool Panel views structures and combine ToolBox and ToolBoxWorkflow into one component
  (thanks to `@ahmedhamidawan <https://github.com/ahmedhamidawan>`__).
  `Pull Request 16739`_
* Add missing requirements to perl tools
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 16763`_
* Updated path-based interactive tools with entry point path injection, support for ITs with relative links, shortened URLs, doc and config updates including
  Podman job_conf
  (thanks to `@sveinugu <https://github.com/sveinugu>`__).
  `Pull Request 16795`_
* Fix missing grep input in sort1 tool
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 16910`_
* Fix maf_thread_for_species.py
  (thanks to `@lldelisle <https://github.com/lldelisle>`__).
  `Pull Request 16971`_
* Fix duplicated tools in tool panel view section copying
  (thanks to `@jmchilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>`__).
  `Pull Request 17036`_

Release Notes
===========================================================

Please see the :doc:`full release notes <23.2_announce>` for more details.

.. include:: 23.2_prs.rst

.. include:: _thanks.rst
