
===========================================================
24.0 Galaxy Release (March 2024)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

Feature1
--------

Feature description.

Feature2
--------

Feature description.

Feature3
--------

Feature description.


Visualizations
===========================================================

.. visualizations
* Fix for fits_image_viewer visualization plugin
  (thanks to `@francoismg <https://github.com/francoismg>`__).
  `Pull Request 17002`_
* Replaces Trackster Grids with Data Dialog, Removes Phyloviz, Circster and Sweepster
  (thanks to `@guerler <https://github.com/guerler>`__).
  `Pull Request 17415`_
* Add basic TIFF Image visualization
  (thanks to `@davelopez <https://github.com/davelopez>`__).
  `Pull Request 17553`_
* Enhance Avivator display app to support regular Tiffs
  (thanks to `@davelopez <https://github.com/davelopez>`__).
  `Pull Request 17554`_
* Remove legacy phyloviz, circster and sweepster artifacts
  (thanks to `@guerler <https://github.com/guerler>`__).
  `Pull Request 17573`_

Datatypes
===========================================================

.. datatypes
* Make columns types an empty list for empty tabular data
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 13918`_
* Python 3.8 as minimum
  (thanks to `@mr-c <https://github.com/mr-c>`__).
  `Pull Request 16954`_
* Add support for (fast5.tar).xz binary compressed files
  (thanks to `@tuncK <https://github.com/tuncK>`__).
  `Pull Request 17106`_
* Fix for converter tests
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 17188`_
* correct dbkey for minerva display app
  (thanks to `@hexylena <https://github.com/hexylena>`__).
  `Pull Request 17196`_
* Add a3m datatype
  (thanks to `@astrovsky01 <https://github.com/astrovsky01>`__).
  `Pull Request 17217`_
* Add binary datatypes for intermediate output of fastk tools
  (thanks to `@astrovsky01 <https://github.com/astrovsky01>`__).
  `Pull Request 17265`_
* Enable ``warn_unreachable`` mypy option
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 17365`_
* Fix type annotation of code using XML etree
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 17367`_
* Update to black 2024 stable style
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 17391`_
* Allow using tool data bundles as inputs to reference data select parameters
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 17435`_
* Faster FASTA and FASTQ metadata setting
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 17462`_
* Feature SBOL datatypes
  (thanks to `@guillaume-gricourt <https://github.com/guillaume-gricourt>`__).
  `Pull Request 17482`_
* Better display of estimated line numbers and add number of columns for tabular
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 17492`_
* Add magres datatype
  (thanks to `@martenson <https://github.com/martenson>`__).
  `Pull Request 17499`_
* add npy datatype
  (thanks to `@astrovsky01 <https://github.com/astrovsky01>`__).
  `Pull Request 17517`_

Builtin Tool Updates
===========================================================

.. tools
* Qiskit in galaxy
  (thanks to `@thepineapplepirate <https://github.com/thepineapplepirate>`__).
  `Pull Request 17170`_
* Hide wig_to_bigWig tool
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 17328`_
* Update to black 2024 stable style
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 17391`_
* Update RStudio GxIT to use the reworked 23.1 image
  (thanks to `@natefoo <https://github.com/natefoo>`__).
  `Pull Request 17533`_

Release Testing Team
===========================================================

A special thanks to the release testing team:

* `Ahmed Awan <https://github.com/ahmedhamidawan>`__
* `David López <https://github.com/davelopez>`__
* `Jennifer Hillman-Jackson <https://github.com/jennaj>`__
* `John Davis <https://github.com/jdavcs>`__
* `Tyler Collins <https://github.com/tcollins2011>`__

Release Notes
===========================================================

Please see the :doc:`full release notes <24.0_announce>` for more details.

.. include:: 24.0_prs.rst

.. include:: _thanks.rst
