
===========================================================
June 2024 Galaxy Release (v 24.1)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

Feature1
--------

Feature description.

Feature2
--------

Feature description.

Feature3
--------

Feature description.

Also check out the `24.1 user release notes <24.1_announce_user.html>`__.
Are you an admin? Check out `some admin relevant PRs <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pulls?q=label%3Ahighlight%2Fadmin+milestone%3A24.1+is%3Aclosed+is%3Apr>`__.

Get Galaxy
===========================================================

The code lives at `GitHub <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy>`__ and you should have `Git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ to obtain it.

To get a new Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git clone -b release_24.1 https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy.git

To update an existing Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git fetch origin && git checkout release_24.1 && git pull --ff-only origin release_24.1

See the `community hub <https://galaxyproject.org/develop/source-code/>`__ for additional details on source code locations.


Administration Notes
===========================================================
Add content or drop section.

Configuration Changes
===========================================================
Add content or drop section.

Deprecation Notices
===========================================================
Add content or drop section.

Release Notes
===========================================================

.. include:: 24.1.rst
   :start-after: announce_start

.. include:: _thanks.rst

Release Team
===========================================================

Release manager:  `John Davis <https://github.com/jdavcs>`__

Release testing:
* `Alireza Heidari <https://github.com/itisAliRH>`__
* `Arash Kadkhodaei <https://github.com/arash77>`__
* `Delphine Lariviere <https://github.com/Delphine-L>`__
* `Jennifer Hillman-Jackson <https://github.com/jennaj>`__
* `Marius van den Beek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__
* `Saim Momin <https://github.com/SaimMomin12>`__
* `Sebastian Schaaf <https://github.com/sebastian-schaaf>`__

Communications:
* `Natalie Whitaker-Allen <https://github.com/natwhitaker>`__

A special thank you goes to everyone who helped test the new release after its deployment on usegalaxy.org.
