
===========================================================
24.2 Galaxy Release (January 2025)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Please see the full :doc:`24.2 release notes <24.2_announce>` for more details.

Highlights
===========================================================

Add wizard-like export view for workflow invocations
-----------------------------------------------------------

[DRAFT] Feature description.

Workflow Editor Activity Bar + Undo stack UI
-----------------------------------------------------------

The Activity Bar is now present in the Workflow Editor along side multiple interface
improvements.

- **No more double side bars**. Inspecting a step now has it's own floating window,
  which can be easily expanded and remembers it's size. All other features were moved to the
  left side-bar.
- **Undo redo UI**. A new interactive way of viewing recent changes. Click a change to scroll
  backwards and forwards in time.
- **Layout anything with ease**. The auto-layout feature was moved to the Editor Tool Bar. It
  now aligns to the grid, untangles connections, and sorts Workflow Comments along with steps.
- **Find your workflows**. Workflows now have their own dedicated interface, from which you can
  find, copy into, and inserts Sub-Workflows into your Workflow.
- **Inputs** are not tools, and are now no longer treated as such. Find inputs in their own
  interface, and easily add input sub-types directly.

Masthead Revision
-----------------------------------------------------------

[DRAFT] Feature description.

Guide users to collection builders
-----------------------------------------------------------

To guide users towards creating collections of the correct type, Galaxy now provides
better navigation via buttons directly on data collection parameters. Users can create a
collection with the required structure for the input, with pre-filtered items from their
current history, also ensuring compatibility with required file extensions. Additionally, users
can upload datasets directly to the collection builder. These updates will improve the user
experience of opening a workflow run form, creating appropriate collection(s) for its inputs
and running the workflow in one seamless iteration.
[`#18857 <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/18857>`__]

Enhanced Workflow Invocation View
-----------------------------------------------------------

The Workflow Invocation View, introduced in the `previous release <24.1_announce_user.html>`__
has been significantly refined to improve the usability and visualization of workflow runs.
[`#18615 <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/18615>`__]

Updates include:

- Workflow steps have been moved to a separate tab, allocating maximum space for the graph.
- Progress bars have also been relocated to the header for a cleaner layout.
- Workflow inputs displayed directly on the graph, eliminating the need for clicking
  and investigating each input.
- The Invocations panel also toggles out on mouse leave, providing an uncluttered view when
  exploring runs.

Libraries Modernisation: Directory Dataset Picker
-----------------------------------------------------------

[DRAFT] Feature description.

Live Reporting of Job Console Outputs
-----------------------------------------------------------

If enabled by the Galaxy administrators, it will now be possible to view live console output
for running jobs. The job output will be available on the Job Information page where these
logs have always been available for completed jobs. The job information view has also been
updated with scrollable code blocks, a more intuitive expand/collapse feature,
and an auto-scroll function for seamless log viewing. This should allow you to debug issues with
running jobs faster and track the progress of running jobs in realtime in a way that has never
been an option in Galaxy. A huge thanks to Gregory Cage at Oak Ridge National Laboratory for
this valuable contribution!
[`#16975 <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pull/16975>`__]

Visualizations
===========================================================

.. visualizations
* Update visualizations package versions
  (thanks to `@guerler <https://github.com/guerler>`__).
  `Pull Request 19232`_
* Fix MSA viz, new dependency specification options
  (thanks to `@dannon <https://github.com/dannon>`__).
  `Pull Request 18760`_
* Parse stored config details to script-based visualizations
  (thanks to `@guerler <https://github.com/guerler>`__).
  `Pull Request 18651`_
* Install npm-package viz to the package prefix explicitly
  (thanks to `@dannon <https://github.com/dannon>`__).
  `Pull Request 18950`_
* Migrate NGL viewer to npm package
  (thanks to `@guerler <https://github.com/guerler>`__).
  `Pull Request 18946`_
* Support deferred datasets in visualizations
  (thanks to `@davelopez <https://github.com/davelopez>`__).
  `Pull Request 19097`_
* Openlayer update to npm package
  (thanks to `@hujambo-dunia <https://github.com/hujambo-dunia>`__).
  `Pull Request 19134`_
* Replace static Cytoscape plugin with npm package
  (thanks to `@itisAliRH <https://github.com/itisAliRH>`__).
  `Pull Request 19127`_
* Update tiff viewer to use script entry_point
  (thanks to `@guerler <https://github.com/guerler>`__).
  `Pull Request 19151`_
* Migrate Venn Diagram to Script-Tag
  (thanks to `@guerler <https://github.com/guerler>`__).
  `Pull Request 19153`_
* FITS file table graph visualization plugin
  (thanks to `@francoismg <https://github.com/francoismg>`__).
  `Pull Request 19003`_
* Restore access to saved visualizations
  (thanks to `@guerler <https://github.com/guerler>`__).
  `Pull Request 19136`_
* Remove OpenLayers legacy files and add SVG logo
  (thanks to `@guerler <https://github.com/guerler>`__).
  `Pull Request 19135`_

Datatypes
===========================================================

.. datatypes
* Add pod5 datatype
  (thanks to `@TomHarrop <https://github.com/TomHarrop>`__).
  `Pull Request 18419`_
* Handle compressed content in dataset preview for all sequence classes
  (thanks to `@PlushZ <https://github.com/PlushZ>`__).
  `Pull Request 18776`_
* Type annotations and fixes
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 18911`_
* Improve usability of Directory datatype
  (thanks to `@wm75 <https://github.com/wm75>`__).
  `Pull Request 17614`_
* Add some Zarr-based datatypes
  (thanks to `@davelopez <https://github.com/davelopez>`__).
  `Pull Request 19040`_
* Add XML based `vtk` datatype
  (thanks to `@tStehling <https://github.com/tStehling>`__).
  `Pull Request 19104`_
* Add gtf to auto_compressed_types
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 19175`_

Builtin Tool Updates
===========================================================

.. tools
* Drop "Send to cloud" tool and associated cloudauthz code
  (thanks to `@jdavcs <https://github.com/jdavcs>`__).
  `Pull Request 18196`_
* Update GPU JupyterLab tool
  (thanks to `@anuprulez <https://github.com/anuprulez>`__).
  `Pull Request 18220`_
* Improvements to Tool Test Parsing
  (thanks to `@jmchilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>`__).
  `Pull Request 18560`_
* Add Tool-Centric APIs to the Tool Shed 2.0
  (thanks to `@jmchilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>`__).
  `Pull Request 18524`_
* Add BlobToolkit to the list of interactive tools
  (thanks to `@Delphine-L <https://github.com/Delphine-L>`__).
  `Pull Request 18630`_
* Enable ``ignore-without-code`` mypy error code
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 18898`_
* Remove some unused dynamic drill down options
  (thanks to `@jmchilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>`__).
  `Pull Request 18892`_
* Fix commas that shouldn't be in biotools_mappings.tsv
  (thanks to `@jmchilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>`__).
  `Pull Request 18919`_
* Add filter null collection operation tool
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 18928`_
* Remove outdated fimo wrapper and galaxy-sequence-utils dependency
  (thanks to `@nsoranzo <https://github.com/nsoranzo>`__).
  `Pull Request 18937`_
* Jupyter Interactive Tool 1.0.1/24.07
  (thanks to `@natefoo <https://github.com/natefoo>`__).
  `Pull Request 18861`_
* Add Interactive Tool Ilastik
  (thanks to `@lldelisle <https://github.com/lldelisle>`__).
  `Pull Request 16837`_

Please see the full :doc:`24.2 release notes <24.2_announce>` for more details.

.. include:: 24.2_prs.rst

----

.. include:: _thanks.rst
