
===========================================================
24.2 Galaxy Release (January 2025)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

Feature1
--------

Feature description.

Feature2
--------

Feature description.

Feature3
--------

Feature description.

DRAFT CONTENT

* Guide users to collection builders
* Workflow Invocation view improvements
* Add wizard-like export view for workflow invocations
* Workflow Editor Activity Bar
* Undo stack UI
* Improvements to help terms & tool help.
* Feature - stdout live reporting
* Experimental galactic wizard
* Allow OAuth 2.0 user defined file sources (w/Dropbox integration)
* Masthead Revision
* Libraries Modernisation: Directory Dataset Picker

Also check out the `24.2 user release notes <24.2_announce_user.html>`__.
Are you an admin? Check out `some admin relevant PRs <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/pulls?q=label%3Ahighlight%2Fadmin+milestone%3A24.2+is%3Aclosed+is%3Apr>`__.

Get Galaxy
===========================================================

The code lives at `GitHub <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy>`__ and you should have `Git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ to obtain it.

To get a new Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git clone -b release_24.2 https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy.git

To update an existing Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git fetch origin && git checkout release_24.2 && git pull --ff-only origin release_24.2

See the `community hub <https://galaxyproject.org/develop/source-code/>`__ for additional details on source code locations.


Administration Notes
===========================================================

DRAFT CONTENT

* Add job metrics per invocation
* Allow OAuth 2.0 user defined file sources (w/Dropbox integration)
* Support high-availability setups for the interactive tools proxy
* Backend handling of setting user-role, user-group, and group-role associations
* Decouple user email from role name
* Add unique constraints to the email and username fields in the galaxy_user table
* Run installed Galaxy with no config and a simplified entry point

Developer Notes
===========================================================

DRAFT CONTENT

* Replace poetry with uv
* Improvements to help terms & tool help.
* A variety of improvements around tool parameter modeling (second try)
* Allow recovering a normalized version of workflow request state from API
* Implement Declarative Testing for Workflow Behaviors
* More concise, readable tool execution testing.
* More data access tests, some refactoring and cleanup
* Parameter Model Improvements
* Upgrade ``openapi-typescript`` to 7.0.2 + swap to ``openapi-fetch``
* Workflow Landing Requests

Configuration Changes
===========================================================
Add content or drop section.

Deprecation Notices
===========================================================
Add content or drop section.

Release Notes
===========================================================

.. include:: 24.2.rst
   :start-after: announce_start

.. include:: _thanks.rst
