
===========================================================
25.0 Galaxy Release (June 2025)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

**Empower Users to Build More Kinds of Collections, More Intelligently**. Galaxy’s collection system has
been significantly enhanced, making it easier to create and manage collections—including mixed paired
and unpaired datasets, nested lists, and more—directly from selected datasets. New wizard-style builders
guide users step-by-step, auto-detecting data structures and offering both instant and advanced setup
options, while improved rule-based import activities, clearer feedback, and numerous refinements.

**Add ZIP explorer to import individual files from local or remote ZIP archives**. Galaxy now features a
ZIP explorer, streamlining the process of importing individual files from both local and remote ZIP
archives.

**Dataset View Component**. A short description of the feature, including how it
works, what it does, and why it is useful.

**Add rerun option for workflows**. Users can now easily rerun any workflow with the exact same inputs
and parameters as a previous run - with a simple click of the new "Rerun" button in the workflow
invocation view.

**Enable cloning subworkflows**. A short description of the feature, including
how it works, what it does, and why it is useful.

**Workflow Run Form Enhancements**. A short description of the feature,
including how it works, what it does, and why it is useful.

**Introducing READMEs for Workflows in the Galaxy Interface.** Galaxy 25.0 introduces support for
associating README/help text with workflows. This provides a way to document workflows directly in the
Galaxy interface, with support for Markdown formatting, links, and images. The README is a part of the
workflow object in the database.

**Add workflow selection and bulk actions**. A short description of the feature,
including how it works, what it does, and why it is useful.

**Add JupyterLite**. A short description of the feature, including how it works,
what it does, and why it is useful.

**IT Activity Panel**. A short description of the feature, including how it
works, what it does, and why it is useful.

**Visualization-First Display functionality**. A short description of the
feature, including how it works, what it does, and why it is useful.

**Introduce reusable GCard component for unified card layout**. A short
description of the feature, including how it works, what it does, and why it is
useful.

**Remote File Sources and Storage Locations redesign**. A short description of
the feature, including how it works, what it does, and why it is useful.

**Add User-Defined Tools**. A short description of the feature, including how it
works, what it does, and why it is useful.

**Allow to send notifications when Admins cancel jobs**. A short description of
the feature, including how it works, what it does, and why it is useful.

Please see the `25.0 user release notes <25.0_announce_user.html>`__ for a summary of new user features.

Get Galaxy
===========================================================

The code lives at `GitHub <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy>`__ and you should have `Git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ to obtain it.

To get a new Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git clone -b release_25.0 https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy.git

To update an existing Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git fetch origin && git checkout release_25.0 && git pull --ff-only origin release_25.0

See the `community hub <https://galaxyproject.org/develop/source-code/>`__ for additional details on source code locations.


Admin Notes
===========================================================
Add content or drop section.

Configuration Changes
===========================================================
Add content or drop section.

Deprecation Notices
===========================================================
Add content or drop section.

Developer Notes
===========================================================
Add content or drop section.

Release Notes
===========================================================

.. include:: 25.0.rst
   :start-after: announce_start

Release Team
===========================================================

Release manager:  `Ahmed Awan <https://github.com/ahmedhamidawan>`__

Release testing:

* `Paulo Cilas Morais Lyra Junior <https://github.com/paulocilasjr>`__
* `Tyler Collins <https://github.com/tcollins2011>`__
* `Jayadev Joshi <https://github.com/jaidevjoshi83>`__
* `Jennifer Hillman-Jackson <https://github.com/jennaj>`__
* `Fabio Cumbo <https://github.com/cumbof>`__
* `Boris Depoortere <https://github.com/B0r1sD>`__
* `Michelle Savage <https://github.com/hujambo-dunia>`__
* `Daniela Schneider <https://github.com/Sch-Da>`__
* `Dannon Baker <https://github.com/dannon>`__
* `Mina Hojat Ansari <https://github.com/Minamehr>`__

A special thank you goes to everyone who helped test the new release after its deployment on usegalaxy.org.

----

.. include:: _thanks.rst
