
===========================================================
26.0 Galaxy Release (February 2026)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Please see the `26.0 user release notes <26.0_announce_user.html>`__ for a summary of new user features.
The `GitHub Release Notes <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/releases/tag/v26.0.0>`__ provide a comprehensive overview of all changes.

Get Galaxy
===========================================================

The code lives at `GitHub <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy>`__ and you should have `Git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ to obtain it.

To get a new Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git clone -b release_26.0 https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy.git

To update an existing Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git fetch origin && git checkout release_26.0 && git pull --ff-only origin release_26.0

See the `community hub <https://galaxyproject.org/develop/source-code/>`__ for additional details on source code locations.


Admin Notes
===========================================================
Add content or drop section.

Configuration Changes
===========================================================
Run ``python scripts/release-diff.py release_<previous_version>`` in the Galaxy root directory
to get a diff of configuration changes between releases.
Add any more content or drop section if it's empty.

Deprecation Notices
===========================================================
Add content or drop section.

Developer Notes
===========================================================
Add content or drop section.

Release Team
===========================================================

Release manager:  `Aysam Guerler <https://github.com/guerler>`__, `Ahmed Awan <https://github.com/ahmedhamidawan>`__

Release testing:

* `Tyler Collins <https://github.com/tcollins2011>`__
* `Arash Kadkhodaei <https://github.com/arash77>`__
* `John Chilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>`__
* `Keith Suderman <https://github.com/ksuderman>`__
* `Aysam Guerler <https://github.com/guerler>`__
* `Alireza Heidari <https://github.com/itisAliRH>`__
* `Jennifer Hillman-Jackson <https://github.com/jennaj>`__

Communications:

* `Natalie Whitaker-Allen <https://github.com/natalie-wa>`__
* `Scott Cain <https://github.com/scottcain>`__

A special thank you goes to everyone who helped test the new release after its deployment on usegalaxy.org.

----

.. include:: _thanks.rst
